=== PDF page 1 ===
2026-2-19
World Action Models are Zero-shot Policies
Seonghyeon Ye† Yunhao Ge* Kaiyuan Zheng* Shenyuan Gao* Sihyun Yu* George Kurian*
Suneel Indupuru* You Liang Tan* Chuning Zhu Jiannan Xiang Ayaan Malik Kyungmin Lee
William Liang Nadun Ranawaka Jiasheng Gu Yinzhen Xu Guanzhi Wang Fengyuan Hu
Avnish Narayan Johan Bjorck Jing Wang Gwanghyun Kim Dantong Niu Ruijie Zheng Yuqi Xie
Jimmy Wu Qi Wang Ryan Julian Danfei Xu Yilun Du Yevgen Chebotar Scott Reed Jan Kautz
Yuke Zhu† Linxi “Jim” Fan† Joel Jang†
NVIDIA
†Project Leads *Core Contributors
https://dreamzero0.github.io
Task Transfer via X-Embodiments
Bimanual Arm
 Human
Future Videos Continuous actions
Videos Language Proprio
Generalization after Post-training 
Table Bussing
Fruit Packing
Task Diversity             Repetition 
Bi-manual Mobile Manipulation
 Single-Arm Manipulation
Diverse, Non-repetitive Pretraining Data
Fan the burger
With only 30 minutes of play data
Pick up the teddy 
bear
Put orange in pumpkin
Put banana in shelfPut noodle in paper bag
Untie the box
Press elevator button Depress the lever on the toaster
Zero-shot Generalization to 
Unseen Tasks in Unseen Environments
Few-shot Adaptation to 
New Embodiment
>
W or l d Ac tion M ode l
D rea mZ ero
Figure 1:Overview. By jointly predicting video and action, World Action Models (WAMs) inherit world physics
priors that enable 1) effective learning from diverse, non-repetitive data, 2) open-world generalization, 3)
cross-embodiment learning from video-only data, and 4) few-shot adaptation to new robots.
©2026 NVIDIA. All rights reserved.
arXiv:2602.15922v1  [cs.RO]  17 Feb 2026

=== PDF page 2 ===
World Action Models are Zero-shot Policies
Abstract
State-of-the-art Vision-Language-Action (VLA) models excel at semantic generalization but struggle
to generalize to unseen physical motions in novel environments. We introduceDreamZero , a World
ActionModel(WAM)builtuponapretrainedvideodiffusionbackbone. UnlikeVLAs, WAMslearnphysical
dynamics by predicting future world states and actions, using video as a dense representation of how
the world evolves. By jointly modeling video and action,DreamZero learns diverse skills effectively
from heterogeneous robot data without relying on repetitive demonstrations. This results in over 2×
improvement in generalization to new tasks and environments compared to state-of-the-art VLAs in real-
robot experiments. Crucially, through model and system optimizations, we enable a 14B autoregressive
video diffusion model to perform real-time closed-loop control at 7Hz. Finally, we demonstrate two
forms of cross-embodiment transfer: video-only demonstrations from other robots or humans yield a
relative improvement of over 42% on unseen task performance with just 10–20 minutes of data. More
surprisingly, DreamZero enables few-shot embodiment adaptation, transferring to a new embodiment
with only 30 minutes of play data while retaining zero-shot generalization.
1. Introduction
Recent robotic foundation models, termed Vision-Language Action models (VLAs), extend pretrained Vision-
Language Models (VLMs) to predict motor actions (Bjorck et al., 2025; Black et al., 2024; Brohan et al., 2023;
Gemini Robotics Team, 2025; Kim et al., 2024). While VLAs successfully inherit linguistic priors to generalize
across diverse language instructions, especially manipulating diverse objects (Brohan et al., 2023), their
generalization to novel environments and, more critically, to new motions or skills remains limited (Guruprasad
et al., 2025; Zhou et al., 2025). For example, VLAs can successfully execute “move coke can to Taylor Swift”
(Brohan et al., 2023) by leveraging the web knowledge acquired during VLM pretraining to identify the target
location, and connecting it to the learned move skill from the robot data. However, they fail at a task like
“untie the shoelace” if that specific skill was not present in the robot training data. Although VLM priors encode
whatto do at a semantic level, they lack representations ofhowactions should be executed with precise spatial
awareness, aligned with geometry, dynamics, and motor control (Chen et al., 2024; Feng et al., 2025). As a
result, VLAs often struggle to adapt to new environments or generalize to novel tasks beyond the distribution
of expert demonstrations, without explicitly collecting large-scale task- and environment-specific action data.
In this paper, we presentDreamZero , a 14B robot foundation model built upon a pretrained image-to-
video diffusion backbone (Team Wan, 2025). We term this architecture aWorld Action Model (WAM)—a
foundation model designed to predict both actions and visual future states in an aligned manner. Initialized
fromvideodiffusionmodelstrainedonweb-scalevideodata, WAMsleveragerichspatiotemporalpriorstojointly
generate future frames and actions conditioned on language instructions and observations. This shifts action
learning from dense state–action imitation to inverse dynamics—aligning motor commands with predicted
visual futures. Consequently, we observe that this enables (1) effective learning from robot data that are
heterogeneous trajectories collected during the execution of useful behaviors in real-world settings, rather
than relying solely on carefully repeated demonstrations (2) zero-shot generalization to new tasks in new
environments, and (3) efficient cross-embodiment transfer.
This approach yields three core advancements that distinguishDreamZero from prior work, including other
WAMs (Kim et al., 2026; Liang et al., 2025; Pai et al., 2025). First,DreamZerounlocks new generalization
capabilities beyond traditional VLAs and previous WAMs—across environments, across tasks, and across
embodiments (Figure 2 and Figure 3). Compared to the state-of-the-art pretrained VLAs, we observe more
than a 2× improvement in average task progress on environment and task generalization benchmarks. Second,
DreamZero demonstrates that generalist policies can be learned effectively from diverse, heterogeneous
data, breaking away from the conventional wisdom that generalist robot policies require multiple repeated
2

=== PDF page 3 ===
World Action Models are Zero-shot Policies
Hit the Cymbal
Real-world 
Execution
Generated
Fry vegetables in pan with spatula
Figure 2:Joint Video and Action Prediction.DreamZero jointly generates video and action. We observe
that the predicted actions closely align with the generated video. The examples are from totally unseen tasks.
demonstrations per task. Although other WAMs show that priors learned from videos prediction improves
sample efficiency for action learning compared to VLAs (Liao et al., 2025; Pai et al., 2025), most works still
focus on repeated demonstrations. Moreover, the environment generalization ofDreamZero is retained even
after task-specific post-training, outperforming state-of-the-art VLAs by 10% on average task progress. Lastly,
we demonstrate two forms of cross-embodiment transfer. First, video-only demonstrations from another robot
(YAM) or humans yield a relative improvement of over 42% on unseen task performance for the target robot
(AgiBot G1) with just 10–20 minutes of data. Second, and more surprisingly, we show thatDreamZero
enablesfew-shot embodiment adaptation: a model pretrained on AgiBot G1 adapts to an entirely new robot
(YAM) with only 30 minutes of play data, retaining zero-shot generalization. To the best of our knowledge,
this sets a new benchmark for data-efficient embodiment adaptation.
DreamZero is a 14B autoregressive diffusion transformer trained with a teacher-forcing chunk-wise video
denoising objective. Our architectural analysis reveals that larger pretrained video diffusion models produce
higher-quality video predictions, which directly translates to superior downstream action execution—indicating
that policy performance is fundamentally tied to video generation quality. We further find that diverse
distribution of the training data is essential for generalization, outperforming multi-task repetitive data with
the same amount of hours. Furthermore, we observe that autoregressive architectures lead to smoother robot
motions and higher modality alignment between predicted videos and executed actions.
To address the computational overhead inherent to video diffusion models, we introduce a suite of optimizations
spanning three categories: (1) algorithmic improvements, including decoupled video and action denoising
schedules (DreamZero -Flash); (2) system-level parallelism and caching strategies; and (3) low-level opti-
mizations such as quantization, and CUDA kernel tuning. Collectively, these techniques achieve a 38×inference
speedup without degrading performance, enablingDreamZeroto generate action chunks at approximately
7Hz for smooth, real-time robotic control.
Our main contributions are:
• We introduceDreamZero , a 14B WAM that jointly predicts video and actions, enabling effective learning
from diverse, non-repetitive robot data.
• We demonstrate over 2× improvement in zero-shot generalization tounseen verbs and motionscompared
to state-of-the-art VLAs, while retaining generalization across objects and environments.
• We present model and system optimizations achieving38× inference speedup, enabling real-time closed-
loop control at7Hz.
• We demonstrate cross-embodiment transfer: video-only data from humans (12 minutes) or other robots (20
minutes) yields a relative improvement of over 42% on unseen tasks, and introducefew-shot embodiment
adaptation—DreamZero pretrained on AgiBot G1 adapts to an entirely new robot (YAM) with only 30
minutes of play data, enabling zero-shot generalization.
• Weopen-sourceourmodelweights,inferencecode,andcodetorunpubliclyavailablereal-world(RoboArena)
3

=== PDF page 4 ===
World Action Models are Zero-shot Policies
Stack green bowl on the blue bowl
Throw trash into trash can
Pick up juice box and insert into cup
Push rolling chair back under desk Pick a card from the deck Pass spatula from right arm to left arm Grab the sauce bottle and pour into cup Move cube in the direction of the arrow
Pull the cart Pick up tool and hand it to human Slide the box Fold the shorts
Place bag in basket Grab eraser and wipe whiteboard Pull wipe and wipe the table Reach inside the box to grab pear
Unplug the cable Fist bump the human Pick up mango and put on tray Flip light switch off
Figure 3:Free-form Evaluation. DreamZero performs a diverse range of tasks when conditioned on natural
language instructions, including object manipulation, tool use, and human-robot interaction.
andsimulationbenchmarks(PolaRiSandGenieSim3.0) 1 at https://github.com/dreamzero0/dreamzero.
2. Related Work
2.1. Vision Language Action Models
Utilizing Foundation Models for Robotics.Developing foundation models (Bommasani et al., 2021) for
physical artificial intelligence has emerged as a significant research frontier. One line of work involves using
existing, pre-trainedfoundationmodelsas“black-box”reasonerstohandlehigh-leveltaskplanning. Theseworks
usually involvemodularsystems, where the foundation models generate sequences of instructions, visual traces,
or affordances that are subsequently executed by specialized, low-level robotic policies or controllers (Brohan
et al., 2023; Driess et al., 2023; Huang et al., 2023; Kumar et al., 2026; Singh et al., 2023). While this
modularity simplifies complex planning and enables stronger generalization (Kaelbling and Lozano-Pérez;
Lee et al., 2025; Li et al., 2025) and efficiency (Dreczkowski et al., 2025), it is contingent upon having a
pre-existing library of low-level skills and a robust interface to bridge the gap between abstract reasoning and
physical execution. Additionally, these decoupled systems face the risk of compounding errors across modules.
VLAs.On the other hand, end-to-end models such as Vision-Language-Action models (VLAs) (Bjorck et al.,
2025; Black et al., 2024; Brohan et al., 2022, 2023; Bu et al., 2025; Gemini Robotics Team, 2025; Kim et al.,
2024; Physical Intelligence, 2025; Yang et al., 2025; Ye et al., 2025; Zheng et al., 2025), have gained popularity
by moving away from a rigid hierarchy of planning and control, combining language-conditioned semantics
and low-level robot actions within the same model. VLAs are often initialized from large vision-language (VLM)
models pre-trained on web-scale datasets. While pushing the frontier on visual-semantic knowledge transfer,
these models are pre-trained onstaticimage-text datasets, which limits their ability to inherit spatiotemporal
priors required to transfer knowledge to new physical skills.
Generalization in VLAs.Generalization in VLAs has been mostly demonstrated on object and semantic
level (Brohan et al., 2023; Gao et al., 2025) while generalization to completely new skills and environments has
1Despite only being trained on∼500 hours of real-world data,DreamZero shows non-trivial performance on Genie Sim 3.0, which is
a simulation benchmark comprised of 100 different taskswithoutbeing explicitly trained on the 10k hours of simulation training data.
4

=== PDF page 5 ===
World Action Models are Zero-shot Policies
remained limited. In particular, existing work utilizing VLAs achieves environment generalization by collecting
human teleoperation data across hundreds of diverse environments for specific tasks (Physical Intelligence,
2025). Furthermore, while current VLAs attempt to achieve task generalization by covering a large library
of language-conditioned motion primitives (Gemini Robotics Team, 2025), this approach is fundamentally
constrained by the impracticality of capturing the vast amount of possible physical interactions and motions
with a fixed set of episode-level language-conditioned tasks. In contrast, video-based world models learn from
every consecutive frame pair in the data, while also leveraging large-scale video pretraining to understand
physical dynamics.
2.2. Video Model-based Robot Policies
Video Generation in Robotics.Prior works show that video generation models can be used to synthesize
robot trajectories and extract executable actions at test-time through various approaches: inverse-dynamics
models (Du et al., 2023; Zhou et al., 2024), optical flow as dense correspondence (Ko et al., 2024), or
trajectory prediction as high-level planning (Du et al., 2024; Yang et al., 2024). Other works generate human
videos—either with 3D tracking (Liang et al., 2024) or for novel scenes and motions (Bharadhwaj et al., 2024;
Chen et al., 2025)—and train policies using point tracking objectives. Most recently, (Jang et al., 2025; Luo
et al., 2025) demonstrated that video generation models can produce synthetic robot data for unseen behaviors
in novel environments, leveraging the strong generalization capabilities of these models.
Joint Video and Action Generation.Another line of work couples video and action generation for end-to-end
learning. These methods demonstrate that incorporating a world modeling objective alongside action prediction
improves multi-task performance, sample efficiency, and generalization to novel scenes and objects. Previous
work (Cheang et al., 2024; Li et al., 2025; Won et al., 2025; Wu et al., 2024; Zhao et al., 2025; Zheng et al.,
2025; Zhu et al., 2025) learns to do joint world modeling and action prediction from scratch or from VLAs,
while more recent work (Hu et al., 2024; Kim et al., 2026; Liang et al., 2025; Liao et al., 2025; Pai et al., 2025)
leverages pretrained video diffusion models to inherit rich visual dynamics priors. We refer to these models
collectively asWorld Action Models (WAMs)since they leverage world modeling capability (predicting the future
state) for action prediction. We use the term World Action Models (WAMs) rather than Video Action Models
(VAMs) to reflect that video is just one possible world modeling objective—future WAMs may align actions with
other predictive modalities such as tactile sensing, force feedback, or learned latent representations. In contrast
to prior WAMs,DreamZero systematically explores data diversity and scale to expose the full generalization
potential of WAMs, adopts an autoregressive architecture better suited for long-horizon world–action modeling,
achieves state-of-the-art generalization across both novel tasks and environments, and achieves state-of-the-art
cross-embodiment tranfer, both learning from different embodiments (video only) and few-shot adaptation to
a new embodiment.
Why WAMs.WAMs built upon video diffusion backbones inherit rich spatiotemporal priors from web-scale
data, capturing the best of both paradigms: the seamless gradient flow of end-to-end VLAs and dense world
modeling supervision for planning. Unlike latent world models (Assran et al., 2025; Hafner et al., 2019,
2020, 2023), which learn dynamics from scratch in compact latent spaces, WAMs leverage pretrained video
representations that already encode physical dynamics from internet-scale data. Central to this approach
is learning the joint distribution of video and action—DreamZero simultaneously learns both modalities,
with video prediction serving as an implicit visual planner that guides action generation. This formulation
not only means that improving robotic capabilities reduces to improving video generation, but also enables
three capabilities that elude current VLAs: zero-shot generalization to novel tasks, effective learning from
heterogeneous robot data, and extremely efficient cross-embodiment transfer from videos. We provide further
discussion about the differences between WAMs and alternative world model architectures (e.g., latent-space,
3D point cloud) in Appendix A.
5

=== PDF page 6 ===
World Action Models are Zero-shot Policies
Figure 4:Model Architecture ofDreamZero .The model takes three inputs: visual context (encoded via a
VAE), language instructions (via a text encoder), and proprioceptive state (via a state encoder). These are
processed by an autoregressive DiT backbone using flow matching, which jointly predicts future video frames
and actions through separate decoders. During training (left), for each chunk, the model denoises noisy video
and action latents conditioned on clean video context. During inference (right), predictions are executed
asynchronously in the real world, and ground-truth observations are fed back into the KV cache to prevent
error accumulation.
3.DreamZero
Pretrained video diffusion models offer rich spatiotemporal priors from web-scale data, making them attractive
backbones for robot policies. However, converting these models into effective World Action Models (WAMs)
presents three key challenges: (1)Video-action alignment: jointly predicting video and actions requires tight
coupling between visual futures and motor commands, yet naively combining separate video and action heads
can lead to misalignment; (2)Architectural design: it remains unclear whether bidirectional or autoregressive
architectures are better suited for WAMs, with implications in modality alignment, error accumulation, and
inference efficiency; and (3)Real-time inference: video diffusion models require iterative denoising across
high-dimensional latent spaces, making them prohibitively slow for closed-loop control.
DreamZero addresses these challenges through three design choices. First, we train a single end-to-end
model that jointly denoises video and action with a shared objective, ensuring deep integration between
modalities. Second, we adopt an autoregressive architecture and exploit the closed-loop setting: after each
action chunk is executed, we replace predicted frames with ground-truth observations in the KV cache,
eliminating compounding errors while enabling efficient inference via KV caching and preserving native frame
rates for precise modality alignment (See right side of Figure 4). Third, we introduce a suite of system-,
implementation-, and model-level optimizations that achieve a 38× inference speedup, enabling real-time
control at 7Hz. We detail the model architecture in Section 3.1 and real-time execution in Section 3.2.
3.1. Model Architecture
Problem Formulation.DreamZero jointly predicts videoo𝑙:𝑙+𝐻 and actionsa𝑙:𝑙+𝐻 conditioned on language
instruction c, proprioceptive stateq𝑙 and visual observation including the current and the past historyo0:𝑙
where𝐻 >0 is a fixed horizon and𝑙 is a random index sampled from a trajectory. Note that joint prediction of
video and action is a decomposition of (1) autoregressive video prediction and (2) action prediction from an
inverse-dynamics model (IDM):
𝜋0(o𝑙:𝑙+𝐻,a𝑙:𝑙+𝐻|o 0:𝑙,c,q 𝑙)⏟  ⏞  
DreamZero
=𝜋 0(o𝑙:𝑙+𝐻|o 0:𝑙,c,q 𝑙)⏟  ⏞  
video prediction
𝜋0(a𝑙:𝑙+𝐻|o 0:𝑙+𝐻,q𝑙)⏟  ⏞  
IDM
(1)
6

=== PDF page 7 ===
World Action Models are Zero-shot Policies
Instead of using two separate models (video prediction model and inverse dynamics model) to model the
decomposed objective (Li et al., 2026; Pai et al., 2025), we train a single model end-to-end with joint prediction
objective. We believe that this end-to-end design enables better video-action alignment through a deep
integration between the two modalities. Since pretrained video models are already optimized on the video
prediction objective on diverse web-scale video data,DreamZero only needs to additionally learn to predict
videos for the robot embodiment videos and extract corresponding actions from the generated videos. We
further hypothesize that this encourages better generalization than the conventional practice of training VLA
from VLM , as our approach explicitly learns temporal dynamics from video frames used both as conditioning
inputs and prediction targets.
Model Architecture.The model architecture is shown in Figure 4. To retain the generalization capability of
video models, we introduce minimal additional parameters: state encoders, action encoders, and decoders.
For robot training data that contains multiple views, we concatenate all views into a single frame instead of
making architectural changes to the backbone model.
In particular, DreamZero is trained to predict video frames and corresponding actions autoregressively.
Autoregressive generation possesses the following advantages: (1) it enables faster inference speed by utilizing
KV-cache, (2) the policy model can leverage the visual observation history as guidance for the next generation,
and (3) it avoids the modality alignment challenges (video, action, and language alignment) inherent to
bidirectional models. Concretely, bidirectional diffusion typically requires processing fixed-length sequences,
which often necessitates video subsampling that distorts native FPS, potentially harming video-action alignment.
On the other hand, autoregressive generation leverages KV caching to support arbitrarily long contexts within
a single forward pass. This preserves the native frame rate, ensuring precise alignment between video frames
and robot actions. Some details illustration of this difference is provided in Appendix B.
We introduce autoregressive modeling only for the video modality to avoid error propagation coming from
closed-loop action prediction.DreamZero is trained to predict video frames in achunkmanner; each chunk
has a fixed number of latent frames𝐾 to match the action horizon. Chunk-wise generation enables training on
variable length of videos, similar to how LLMs are trained on variable length of language tokens. We provide
more details on the QKV attention masking strategy for the different modalities in Appendix C.
Training Objective.Similar to recent video diffusion models and VLAs, we employ flow-matching (Albergo
et al., 2023; Lipman et al., 2022; Liu et al., 2022) as the training objective (Ali et al., 2025; Team Wan, 2025;
Teng et al., 2025). Unlike recent WAMs (Kim et al., 2026; Li et al., 2025; Liao et al., 2025; Zhu et al., 2025),
DreamZeroshares the denoising timestep between video and action modality for faster convergence at the
beginning of training. Also, we apply teacher forcing (Gao et al., 2024; Jin et al., 2024) as a training objective;
the model is trained to denoise the noisy current chunk conditioned on the clean previous chunks.
Formally, given a chunk index𝑘 >0and the denoising timestep𝑡𝑘∈[0,1] , we denote the corresponding noisy
video latent vector for original videoo𝑘 as z𝑘
𝑡𝑘 and noisy normalized actions asa𝑘
𝑡𝑘. All frames within the same
chunk share the same timestep𝑡𝑘, while different chunks are assigned independent timesteps. Our model
denoisesz𝑘
𝑡𝑘 anda 𝑘
𝑡𝑘, defined as linear interpolations between clean vectors and random Gaussian noises:
z𝑘
𝑡𝑘 =𝑡 𝑘z𝑘
1 + (1−𝑡 𝑘)z𝑘
0,a 𝑘
𝑡𝑘 =𝑡 𝑘a𝑘
1 + (1−𝑡 𝑘)a𝑘
0,(2)
where z𝑘
0∼𝒩(0,I),a 𝑘
0∼𝒩(0,I) , and z𝑘
1 and a𝑘
1 are a clean video latent vector and a normalized action,
respectively. Thus, the clean context from the previous chunks can be denoted as𝒞𝑘 ={(z 𝑗
1,a𝑗
1)}𝑘−1
𝑗=1.
We train the modelu𝜃 to predict the joint velocity for both modalities using the following flow-matching
objective:
ℒ(𝜃) =E z,a,{𝑡𝑘}
[︃
1
𝐾
𝐾∑︁
𝑘=1
𝑤(𝑡𝑘)
⃦⃦u𝜃([z𝑘
𝑡𝑘,a𝑘
𝑡𝑘 ];𝒞𝑘,c,q 𝑘,𝑡𝑘)−v 𝑘⃦⃦2
]︃
,(3)
7

=== PDF page 8 ===
World Action Models are Zero-shot Policies
where𝑤(𝑡𝑘)>0 is a predefined weight function for𝑡𝑘, c is the text condition,q𝑘 is the proprioceptive states of
𝑘-th chunk, and the velocityv𝑘 := [z𝑘
1,a𝑘
1]−[z 𝑘
0,a𝑘
0]. To enable efficient training, we perform trajectory-level
updates and apply attention masking (e.g., see Figure 14 for details) so that the current noisy chunk can attend
to clean context of previous chunks. We provide the pseudo-code in Algorithm 1.
Model Inference.As shown in Figure 4, during inference,DreamZero jointly denoises video and action
chunks, leveraging KV caching for efficiency (Huang et al., 2025; Teng et al., 2025; Yin et al., 2025). Unlike
pure video generation, our closed-loop setting allows ground-truth observations to replace generated frames in
the KV cache after each action execution (see Figure 14). This eliminates the compounding error problem
inherent to autoregressive video generation—a key advantage unique to WAMs. Moreover, as a stateful policy,
DreamZero can leverage visual history for tasks requiring memory.2. We provide the pseudo-code of inference
in Algorithm 2
3.2. Real-time Execution ofDreamZero
Diffusion-based WAMs inherit powerful generalization from video foundation models, but their iterative
denoising process creates a fundamental tension with reactive robotic control. We address two questions: (1)
What prevents WAMs from being reactive policies? (2) How do we resolve this for real-time control?
3.2.1. The Reactivity Gap
Reactive policies must respond to environmental changes within tens of milliseconds. A naive implementation
of DreamZero on a single GPU requires approximately 5.7 seconds per action chunk due to three bottlenecks:
(1) iterative denoising across 16 diffusion steps required for smooth actions, (2) the computational cost of a
14B parameter DiT backbone, and (3) sequential execution that blocks robot motion during inference. This
latency makes closed-loop control infeasible.3
3.2.2. Asynchronous Closed-Loop Execution
Our first step towards resolving this is through asynchronous execution that decouples inference from action
execution. Rather than waiting for each inference to complete, the motion controller continuously executes the
most recent action chunk while inference runs concurrently on the latest observation. This structure transforms
the latency constraint from “inference must complete before the robot moves” to “inference must complete
before the current action chunk expires.” In our experiments, we deploy policies at an action horizon of 48
steps at 30Hz control frequency (1.6 seconds per chunk) for bimanual manipulation robots. Hence, we target
inference latency below approximately 200ms to ensure sufficient overlap for smooth, reactive control.
3.2.3. System-level Optimizations
Given the asynchronous execution structure, we optimize inference throughput through parallelism and caching.
• CFG Parallelism.Classifier-free guidance (Ho and Salimans, 2022) requires two forward passes (condi-
tional and unconditional). We distribute these across two GPUs, reducing per-step latency by 47%.
• DiT Caching.We exploit the directional consistency of velocity predictions during flow matching. When
cosine similarity between successive velocities exceeds a threshold, we reuse cached velocities, reducing
effective DiT steps from 16 to 4 with minimal quality loss on action prediction.
3.2.4. Implementation-level Optimizations
We further reduce latency through compiler and kernel enhancements.
2In this work, we do not explicitly evaluate or post-trainDreamZeroon tasks that can only succeed with memory. We leave this for
future work.
3One might expect that generating only actions (not video) would accelerate inference, but at 14B scale we empirically found out
that the speed gain is minimal—the number of diffusion steps and the number of DiT blocks dominate latency. Moreover, because video
and action are jointly trained for strong cross-modal alignment, naively reducing action denoising steps degrades quality. This motivates
DreamZero-Flash.
8

=== PDF page 9 ===
World Action Models are Zero-shot Policies
• Torch Compile and CUDA Graphs.We applytorch.compile with CUDA Graphs to eliminate CPU
overhead and fuse operators. Static shapes cause recompilations only during the first trajectory.
• Post-Training Quantization.On Blackwell architecture, we quantize weights and activations to NVFP4
while keeping sensitive operations (QKV, Softmax) in FP8 and non-linear operations in FP16.
• Kernel and Scheduler Enhancements.We use the cuDNN backend for attention and migrate scheduler
operations to GPU to eliminate CPU-GPU synchronization stalls.
0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0
Timestep (tvideo
k )
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7Probability Density
high noise level low noise level
Video Timestep Sampling (tvideo
k )
Coupled (Uniform tvideo
k )
Decoupled (tvideo
k = 1 , Beta(7.0, 1.0))
0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0
Timestep (taction
k )
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7Probability Density
high noise level low noise level
Action Timestep Sampling (taction
k )
Coupled (Uniform taction
k )
Decoupled (Uniform taction
k )
Figure 5:Decoupled Noise Schedules.DreamZero (blue) uses coupled noise for video and action (both
uniform). DreamZero -Flash (red) biases video toward high-noise states via a Beta distribution while keeping
action noise uniform, training the model to predict clean actions from noisy visual context.
3.2.5. Model-level Optimizations:DreamZero-Flash
Even with system optimizations, the number of diffusion steps remains the primary latency bottleneck. However,
naively reducing steps degrades action quality because residual visual noise propagates into action predictions.
DreamZero -Flash addresses this by decoupling video and action noise schedules during training. The key
insight is that, at inference time, actions should denoise to their final values while being conditioned on a
still-noisy video representation within the current chunk, since with very few denoising steps (e.g., fewer than
4), the generated video tokens may remain inaccurate and thus provide a noisy conditioning signal. Standard
DreamZero samples a shared timestep𝑡𝑘∼𝒰(0,1) for both modalities. This creates a train-test mismatch:
during training, the model learns to predict actions when video and action are at thesamenoise level, but
few-step or single-step inference requires predicting clean actions while video remains partially noisy.
DreamZero -Flash closes this gap by biasing video timesteps toward high-noise states via𝑡video
𝑘 = 1−𝜂 , where
𝜂∼Beta(𝛼,𝛽) with𝛼>𝛽 . In practice, we useBeta(7,1) as an example configuration, yieldingE[𝑡video
𝑘 ] = 0.125
(predominantly noisy), while action timesteps remain uniform (Figure 5). During training, this exposes the
model to configurations where it must predict clean actions from noisy visual context, directly matching the
few-step or single-step inference regime. As a result, we reduce the diffusion steps from four to one, cutting
inference from∼350ms to∼150ms with minimal performance loss (Table 3). Moreover, the Flash formulation
enables flexible training configurations—such as varying the noise sampling ratios of video and action—to
better align training with different few-step or single-step inference regimes. In practice, we mainly apply Flash
training as the final stage following the mainDreamZeromodel training.
Action Chunk Smoothing.To suppress high-frequency noise in generated actions, we upsample chunks to2×
resolution, apply a Savitzky-Golay filter, and downsample to original resolution.
3.2.6. Summary
Table 1 summarizes cumulative speedups. System and implementation optimizations yield∼9× speedup on
H100 and∼16× on GB200; addingDreamZero -Flash achieves 38× on GB200, reducing latency from 5.7s to
9

=== PDF page 10 ===
World Action Models are Zero-shot Policies
150ms. With the exception of DiT caching and quantization, all system and implementation-level optimizations
are mathematically equivalent to baseline and show no measurable performance degradation.
Optimization H100 GB200
Baseline 1×1.1×
System-level
+ CFG Parallelism 1.9×1.8×
+ DiT Caching 5.5×5.4×
Implementation-level
+ Torch Compile + CUDA Graphs 8.9×10.9×
+ Kernel & Scheduler Opts. 9.6×14.8×
+ Quantization (NVFP4) — 16.6×
Model-level
+DreamZero-Flash — 38×
Table 1:Cumulative inference speedups.Each row
includes all optimizations above it. Entries marked “—”
indicate features not applicable to that hardware.
4. Experimental Setup
We validate our main hypotheses about learning from diverse data on two robot embodiments: the AgiBot G1
mobile bimanual manipulator and the Franka single-arm robot. We pretrain separately for each embodiment,
leaving multi-embodiment training for future work. For cross-embodiment experiments, we utilize both the
YAM robot and human egocentric data. The experimental setup for AgiBot G1 is illustrated in Figure 7.
We compare against two state-of-the-art Vision-Language-Action models (VLAs): GR00T N1.6 (Bjorck et al.,
2025) and𝜋0.5 (Physical Intelligence, 2025). For each baseline, we evaluate two initialization strategies:
(1)from-scratch, using pretrained VLM weights without prior robot data training for a fair apple-to-apple
comparison with DreamZero , and (2)from-pretrained, using official checkpoints pretrained on thousands of
hours of cross-embodiment robot data. Both variants are then trained on identical data asDreamZero :∼500
hours of teleoperation data we collected for AgiBot G1, and DROID (Khazatsky et al., 2024) for Franka. We
keep the compute budget comparable across all methods by matching total batch size and gradient steps.4
4.1. Pretraining
Data.Our data collection philosophy differs from that of existing VLAs. While recent works have shown that
VLAs can learn effective policies from moderate-sized datasets, these approaches typically rely on structured,
task-focused demonstrations to ensure consistent behavior. We hypothesize that learning to only predict
actions without encoding the knowledge about future world states makes it challenging to leverage highly
heterogeneous, non-repetitive data effectively, as the model must implicitly infer dynamics from noisy state-
action pairs. In contrast, we hypothesizeDreamZero ’s world modeling objective enables effective learning
from diverse demonstrations, allowing us to prioritize breadth and utility over repetition during data collection.
Using AgiBot G1, we collect approximately 500 hours of teleoperation data across 22 unique environments (see
Figure 15), including homes, restaurants, supermarkets, coffee shops, and offices—prioritizing task diversity
and real-world utility over task-specific repetition. As shown in Figure 6, each episode averages around
4.4 minutes and encompasses approximately 42 subtasks—significantly longer-horizon than typical robotic
manipulation datasets (Khazatsky et al., 2024; Walke et al., 2023). The skill distribution reflects real-world
deployment requirements: navigation enables movement between workspaces, while torso adjustments allow
4For from-pretrained baselines, this constitutes continual training on top of the official weights.
10

=== PDF page 11 ===
World Action Models are Zero-shot Policies
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
Duration (minutes)
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35% Percentage
T otal: 7,193 episodes
Mean: 4.4 min
(a) Episode Duration Distribution
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 100 105 110
Number of Subtasks
0
2
4
6
8
10% Percentage
T otal: 7,193 episodes
Mean: 42.4 subtasks (b) Subtask Count Distribution per Episode
(c) Skill Distribution
Figure 6:Distribution statisticsfor the AgiBot pretraining corpus: episode durations, subtask density, and
skill coverage across 7.2K episodes (∼500 hours).
interaction with objects at varying heights (shelves, cabinets). Additional details on the data collection pipeline
are provided in Appendix E.5
We also validateDreamZero on the Franka single-arm robot using DROID (Khazatsky et al., 2024), one
of the most heterogeneous publicly available robotic datasets to demonstrate the effectiveness of WAMs on
diverse, open-source data and enables reproducibility prior to the release of our in-house AgiBot dataset. We
open-source the checkpoint and inference code to run some DROID-sim evals in PolaRiS (Jain et al., 2025).6
Training.We use Wan2.1-I2V-14B-480P (Team Wan, 2025), a 14B image-to-video diffusion model, as the
backbone forDreamZero . We train for 100K steps with a global batch size of 128 for AgiBot and 100K steps
with a global batch size of 128 for DROID datasets. We update all DiT blocks, the state encoder, action encoder,
and action decoder, while freezing the text encoder, image encoder, and VAE.7 For both datasets, we filter out
idle actions and use relative joint positions as the default action representation. We also conduct some ablations
(Section 5.2) where we initialize from Wan2.1-I2V-5B-480P to see the effect of model size (5B vs. 14B).
Evaluation Protocol.We evaluate models out of the box after pretraining. Our default evaluation setting
isunseen environments, unseen objects—because our pretraining and post-training data were collected in a
different geographic location from our evaluation sites, every benchmark inherently tests out-of-distribution
generalization rather than interpolation within the training distribution. We evaluate on two categories:seen
andunseentasks. We define the granularity of a task as a combination of the motion required for the task and
5Weplantoopen-sourcethisdatasetinupcomingreleases. Somesamplescanbefoundat https://dreamzero0.github.io/training_
data_gallery
6Available athttps://github.com/dreamzero0/dreamzero.
7We experimented with LoRA (Hu et al., 2022) but found it led to suboptimal results.
11

=== PDF page 12 ===
World Action Models are Zero-shot Policies
Post-trainingPre-training
Diverse mobile manipulation
Seen Tasks Evals Out-of-distribution Evals
Unseen Task Evals
Repetitive & Task-specific
restocking
bowl stackingorganize shirts pen to cup
untie shoes stacking cubes pressing elevator taking hat off ironing clothes
short folding fruit pick & place new table height, distance, objects, object placements, etc.
dish cleanup laundry folding tidying fruit packing shirt folding table bussingpacking
Figure 7:AgiBot Evaluation Set-up.We are first-citizens of generalization evals, where the default setting is
unseenenvironment andunseenobjects.
the object type. For example, if the training data contains folding a red-colored shirt and evaluate the model to
fold a black-colored shirt with a different size, it is considered as aseentask. On the other hand, if we evaluate
the model to fold socks, it is considered as an unseen task because the motion required to fold socks is different
from folding a shirt (See samples in Figure 7).
AgiBot Evaluation Protocol.Forseentasks, we select 10 tasks from the pretraining distribution, including
pick-and-place variants, stacking, wiping, and folding; we run 8 rollouts per task across 4 robots, each in
different environments and different objects (80 rollouts total per checkpoint). We divide 10 seen tasks into
three categories: PnP-Easy (Pick and place fruit, Wipe the mess, Take out fruit from bag), PnP-Hard (Pick
and place fork/spoon, put the pen in pen holder, put the cup on the coaster, stack bowls/cups in a row), and
Contact-Rich Manipulation (fold shirts, fold shorts, stack clothes). Forunseentasks, we evaluate 10 tasks absent
from training—such as ironing, painting, pulling carts, cube stacking, removing a hat from a mannequin, and
untying shoe laces—with 8 rollouts per task across 4 robots (80 rollouts total per checkpoint). The full list of
each evaluation rollout initial frame and prompt is provided in Appendix F, and some evaluation rollouts can
be found here.8
DROID Evaluation Protocol.We evaluate on 20seentasks and 20unseen tasks(verbs absent from DROID),
performing 2 rollouts per task, for a total of 80 evaluation rollouts across 40 tasks for each checkpoint. We
compare DreamZero against the publicly released𝜋0.5-DROID and an internally trained GR00T N1.6-DROID
checkpoint. Object positions are fixed across checkpoints to ensure fairness. Each rollout is scored from 0 to
1.0 based on partial task completion; full details are provided in Appendix G.
4.2. Post-training
Beyond pre-training, we evaluate whether WAMs improve fine-tuning performance on task-specific data using
the AgiBot robot.
Data.We collect post-training data on three downstream tasks:
• Shirt folding(33 hrs): Fold a flattened t-shirt through 5 sequential stages. We randomize initial shirt position
across 2 shirt types.
8https://dreamzero0.github.io for main evaluation rollouts andhttps://dreamzero0.github.io/evals_gallery for accumu-
lation of unique evaluation rollouts.
12

=== PDF page 13 ===
World Action Models are Zero-shot Policies
• Fruit packing(12 hrs): Pack 10 fruits from a table into a bag. We randomize fruit combinations and positions
of fruits and bag.
• Table bussing(40 hrs): Clear 5 pieces of trash into a trash bin and 5 pieces of dishware (dish, bowl, fork, and
spoon) into a dish bin. We randomize object types, combinations, and positions.
Training.We post-train for 50K steps per task. As in pretraining, we update all parameters except the text
encoder, image encoder, and VAE.
Evaluation Protocol.We measure average task progress across 10 rollouts per task. Task progress is defined as:
(1) folding stages completed out of 5 for shirt folding, (2) fruits successfully packed out of 10 for fruit packing
and (3) items cleared for table bussing. Following Barreiros et al. (2025), we apply an image overlay to the
initial scene to reduce variance.
5. Experimental Results
5.1. Main Results
PnP Easy PnP Hard Contact-Rich AVG
(Task Progress)
AVG
(Task Progress)
AVG
(Success Rate)
0
20
40
60
80
100
Success Rate / Task Progress (%)
2.1 0 0 0.6
17.6
4.7 4.2
8.4
0 0 0 0
52.1
22.7
9.2
27.4
93.8
48.4 49.0
62.2 62
42
69
42
82 75
AgiBot G1 DROID-Franka
GR00T N1.6 (Scratch) GR00T N1.6 (Pretrained) 0.5 (Scratch)
 0.5 (Pretrained)
 DreamZero (Scratch)
Figure 8:Seen Task Evaluation.DreamZero effectively learns from diverse data and generalizes to new
environments, outperforming VLAs across all task categories. VLAs trainedfrom scratchachieve near-zero suc-
cess, whilepretrainedVLAs show modest performance—likely benefiting from embodiment-specific knowledge
acquired through repetitive demonstrations during pretraining.
We evaluate the zero-shot generalization performance ofDreamZero compared to baseline models and
investigate the following research questions:
Q1. Do WAMs learn better from diverse, non-repetitive data?
We evaluate pretrained models out-of-the-box on tasks present in the pretraining data, but in zero-shot
environments with unseen objects. Results are shown in Figure 8.
On AgiBot G1,from-scratchVLAs achieve near-zero task progress score across all categories. Even on simple
pick-and-place tasks (PnP Easy), VLAs occasionally reach toward the correct object but fail to interact accurately
with unseen objects in novel environments. In contrast,DreamZero successfully learns from heterogeneous
data, achieving 62.2% average task progress—over 2× higher than the bestpretrainedVLA baseline (27.4%),
despitethosebaselinesbeingpretrainedonthousandsofhoursofcross-embodimentrobotdatabeforecontinued
training on our data mix. On DROID-Franka, we show a similar result as well;DreamZero which is only
trained on the DROID dataset outperforms pre-trained baseline models trained on multiple robot embodiment
data.
We attribute this gap to the joint video-action formulation: while VLAs require massive robot data to learn
direct observation-to-a ction mappings, WAMs leverage video generation as a strong prior for action prediction,
enabling effective learning of diverse data and generalization to unseen environments. Notably, we observe tight
13

=== PDF page 14 ===
World Action Models are Zero-shot Policies
1. Untie Shoelaces 2. Remove Hat
from Mannequin
3. Draw with Pen 4. Take Out Straw 5. Cube Stacking 6. Painting w/ Brush 7. Ironing0
20
40
60
80
100
Average Task Progress (%)
AgiBot G1
0 0 0 0 0 0
7.1
0.1
12.5
0
6.2
0
6.2
00 0 0 0 0 0 0
9.4
42.9
14.3
18.8
6.2
17.9 14.3
28.1
85.7
35.7
46.9
23.9
28.6 28.6
8. Shake Hands 9. Fold Map 10. Pulling Cart AVG
(Task Progress)
AVG
(Task Progress)
AVG
(Success Rate)
0
20
40
60
80
Success Rate / Task Progress (%)
AgiBot G1 DROID-Franka
0 0 0 0.7
18.8
0 0
5
0 0 0 0
25
0
14.3
16.3
59.2
8.2
50
39.5
31
12.5
33
7.5
49
22.5
GR00T N1.6 (Scratch) GR00T N1.6 (Pretrained) 0.5 (Scratch)
 0.5 (Pretrained)
 DreamZero (Scratch)
Figure 9:Zero-shot Generalization to Unseen Tasks.DreamZero achieves non-trivial task progress on 10
tasks absent from training, while VLAs struggle across both embodiments.
alignment between generated videos and real-world execution, even for suboptimal behaviors (Figure 16). Most
DreamZero failures stem from video generation errors rather than action prediction—the policy faithfully
executes whatever trajectory the video predicts. This suggests that improvements to the video backbone would
directly translate to better WAM performance.
Q2. Do WAMs generalize to unseen tasks?
Figure 9 evaluates generalization to 10 tasks entirely absent from the pretraining distribution, including untying
shoelaces, ironing, painting with a brush, and shaking hands.
On AgiBot G1,from-scratchVLAs achieve near-zero task progress (<1% ), while DreamZero reaches 39.5%
on average—with strong performance on tasks like “Remove Hat from Mannequin” (85.7%) and “Shake Hands”
(59.2%). DreamZero also significantly outperforms pretrained VLA baselines (39.5% vs. 16.3%), even though
those baselines may have encountered some of these tasks during cross-embodiment pretraining. Also on the
DROID-Franka setup,DreamZero significantly outperforms (49% task progress, 22.5% success rate) other
pretrained baselines (31% task progress, 12.5% success rate for GR00T N1.6 and 33% task progress, 7.5%
success rate for𝜋0.5).
Qualitatively, we observe that pretrained VLAs often reach toward objects and attempt grasping regardless
of the instruction, suggesting they overfit to dominant training behaviors (e.g., pick-and-place) rather than
understanding novel task semantics, accounting for their partial task progress despite failing to complete
the intended tasks. In contrast,DreamZero performs visual planning for unseen tasks and executes them
successfully, with strong alignment between generated videos and real-world actions.
Beyond structured evaluation, we conduct free-form testing on over 100+ additional tasks, including “Pop the
ballon” and “Press elevator button”, by doing free-form prompting with verbal instructions.9
9Rollouts of these tasks are provided inhttps://dreamzero0.github.io/evals_gallery/.
14

=== PDF page 15 ===
World Action Models are Zero-shot Policies
Shirt Folding Fruit Packing Table Bussing AVG
0
20
40
60
80
100
Average Task Progress (%)
2.5
27
0
9.8
65
56
39
53.3
1.5 0 0 0.5
92.5
71
76 79.8
92.5 96
83 90.5
GR00T N1.6 (Scratch) GR00T N1.6 (Pretrained) 0.5 (Scratch)
 0.5 (Pretrained)
 DreamZero (Scratch)
Figure 10:Posttraining Results. WAMs enable stronger post-training results across three tasks, indicating that
environment generalization ofDreamZerois retained after post-training.
Q3. Do WAMs improve post-training performance?
We investigate whether WAMs retain their generalization even after fine-tuning on task-specific data. Figure 10
shows results on three tasks with varying distribution diversity.
DreamZero matches or outperforms VLA baselines across all tasks: comparable performance on shirt folding
and table bussing while significantly outperforming on fruit packing. Similar to the findings from Figure 8 and
Figure 9,from-scratchbaselines fail to learn accurate motions to grasp the target objects; this means thatfrom-
scratchVLAs tend to overfit to the training data and fail to generalize to scenarios where we vary the table height,
table distance, objects, and object placements, mostly due to the evaluation site being in a different geographic
location (see Figure 7 for samples). Although pretraining on multiple robot embodiments with repetitive data
largely boosts the post-training genearlization performance for pretrained baselines,DreamZero still matches
or outperforms pretrained VLA baselines without cross embodiment pretraining. Since we still evaluate on
unseen environments for post-training, this implies that the environment generalization ofDreamZero is
retained after post-training.
Q4. Do WAMs enable strong cross-embodiment transfer to unseen tasks?
Having shown that WAMs generalize to unseen tasks (Figure 9), we now investigate whether this generalization
can be further improved by leveraging video data from different embodiments performing the same tasks.
Crucially, we use only the video prediction objective for the cross-embodiment data (no actions), while
maintaining the joint video-action objective for the AgiBot pretraining data; the cross-embodiment data thus
serves as additional visual experience to strengthen the world model’s understanding of task dynamics and
expected behavior.
Robot2Robot Transfer
Y AM HumansAgiBot G1
Human2Robot Transfer
Figure 11:Cross-Embodiment Transfer.We explore robot-to-robot (YAM→ AgiBot) and human-to-robot
embodiment transfer to unseen tasks.
15

=== PDF page 16 ===
World Action Models are Zero-shot Policies
We explore two settings (Figure 11): (1)Robot-to-robot transferusing the bimanual YAM robot, and (2)
Human-to-robot transferusing egocentric human demonstrations. For each setting, we collect 72 multi-view
trajectories of the 9 unseen tasks (8 demonstrations per task, 20 minutes for YAM, 12 minutes for human).10
We then co-train from theDreamZero-AgiBot checkpoint on a 1:1 mix with pretraining data for 10K steps.
Results on the 9 unseen tasks (Table 2) show that both transfer settings improve performance over the baseline
DreamZero . Robot-to-robot transfer yields the largest gain (38.3%→ 55.4%), likely due to the narrower
embodiment gap; both YAM and AgiBot are bimanual parallel grippers. Human-to-robot transfer also improves
performance (38.3%→54.3%), despite the larger morphological gap and dynamic egocentric viewpoints.
Method Task Progress
DreamZero38.3%±7.6%
DreamZero+ Human2Robot Transfer 54.3%±10.4%
DreamZero+ Robot2Robot Transfer 55.4%±9.5%
Table 2:Cross-Embodiment Transfer Results.Average task progress on unseen tasks (± standard error).
Both transfer settings improve over baseline (result from Table 9) using only 10–20 minutes of video-only
demonstration data.
These results point to a promising property of WAMs: unlike recent VLA approaches to embodiment transfer (Ka-
reer et al., 2025; Team, 2025), our method relies solely on visual information without action labels. While
current success rates remain moderate, the consistent improvement from just 10–20 minutes of video-only data
provides an early signal that cross-embodiment visual experience transfers meaningfully. This opens a potential
scaling pathway: abundant human video data—orders of magnitude larger than robot datasets—could enable
WAMs to acquire diverse skills without action annotation, pending further research into strengthening the
transfer mechanism.
Q5. Do WAMs enable few-shot new embodiment adaptation?
AgiBot G1
(500 hrs)
Y AM
(30 min)
Retaining Strong Language FollowingFew-shot Embodiment Adaptation
Put the cup noodles in the 
paper bag
Pick up the teddy bear
Put the orange in 
the pumpkin
Put banana in wooden shelf
Figure 12:Few-shot Embodiment Adaptation.We explore few-shot embodiment adaptation by post-training
on 30 minutes of new embodimentplaydata and evaluating on pick-and-place variants requiring strong
language following.
We post-trained theDreamZero -AgiBot checkpoint on a new bimanual manipulator (YAM robot) using only
55 trajectories across 11 unique tasks (∼30 minutes of data).11 As illustrated in Figure 12, despite limited
data and diversity, the post-trained policy retains strong language following ability, even generalizing to novel
10We excludePulling Carttask since data collection through teleoperation was infeasible with our bimanual YAM robot setup.
11We visualize the entire 30 minutes of play datahttps://dreamzero0.github.io/yam_gallery/
16

=== PDF page 17 ===
World Action Models are Zero-shot Policies
objects unseen during training, including pumpkins, teddy bears, pens, cup noodles, and paper bags. Even
with minimal data, we observe tight video-action alignment, demonstrating very efficient cross-embodiment
transfer.
We hypothesize that two factors enable this efficiency: (1) the visual similarity of AgiBot G1 and YAM
embodiment (both equipped with bi-manual parallel grippers), and (2) more fundamentally, learning an
implicit IDM from predicted videos may be inherently more sample-efficient than direct policy learning—the
model only needs to learn the mapping from visual futures to actions, while leveraging the pretrained video
model’s existing understanding of physical dynamics. Consistent with our AgiBot findings, failures primarily
stem from video prediction errors rather than action extraction, suggesting that increasing task diversity during
post-training could further improve performance.12
Q6. DoesDreamZero-Flash maintain performance with fewer denoising steps?
We evaluate whetherDreamZero -Flash can maintain task performance under aggressive single-step denoising.
As shown in Table 3, reducingDreamZero from 4 denoising steps to 1 step drops task progress substantially
(83%→ 52%) on the table bussing task. In contrast,DreamZero -Flash achieves a higher average success rate
(74%) at single-step inference, sitting only 9% below the 4-step baseline while being∼2× faster. This suggests
that decoupled noise scheduling offers a more effective speed–accuracy trade-off for real-time deployment.
Method Denoising steps Task Progress Inference speed×Speed up
DreamZero4 83%±6.1%350ms 1
DreamZero1 52%±10.2%150ms 2.33×
DreamZero-Flash 1 74%±10.1%150ms 2.33×
Table 3:DreamZero -Flash Evaluation.Task progress on table bussing with varying denoising steps (±
standard error).DreamZero-Flash recovers most of the 4-step performance using only 1 denoising step.
5.2. Model and Data Ablations
We conduct ablations to isolate the contributions of data diversity, model scale, and architecture. Due to
computational constraints, all ablation models are trained with 50K steps and batch size 32, and evaluated on
PnP Easytasks for consistent comparison.
Architecture Model Size Data Task Progress
Q1. Data Diversity
DreamZero(AR) 14B Repetitive 33%±4.2%
DreamZero(AR) 14B Diverse 50%±6.3%
Q2. Model Scale
DreamZero(AR) 5B Diverse 21%±4.2%
DreamZero(AR) 14B Diverse 50%±6.3%
VLA 5B Diverse 0%±0.0%
VLA 14B Diverse 0%±0.0%
Q3. Architecture (Bidirectional vs. AR)
DreamZero(BD) 14B Diverse 50%±14.4%
DreamZero(AR) 14B Diverse 50%±6.3%
Table 4:Model and Data Ablations.Task progress on PnP Easy tasks (± standard error). AR = autoregressive,
BD = bidirectional. All models trained with 50K steps and batch size 32.
12In this specific post-training experiment, we only utilized 11 short, global language annotations unique for each task. We hypothesize
diversifying the language can also enable stronger tranfer, but leave further investigation to future work.
17

=== PDF page 18 ===
World Action Models are Zero-shot Policies
Q1. Does data diversity improve generalization?
We compare DreamZero trained on 500 hours ofdiversedata versus 500 hours ofrepetitivedata, where
the latter contains 70 tasks with many repeated demonstrations per task using similar object positions and
configurations. As shown in Table 4, diverse data substantially improves generalization (33%→50%), even on
simple pick-and-place tasks. We hypothesize this reflects WAMs’ learning dynamics: since video prediction
is largely inherited from pretraining, the key challenge is learning inverse dynamics. A robust IDM requires
diverse state-action correspondences across varied contexts, which repetitive data inherently lacks.
Q2. Does WAM performance scale with model size?
For VLAs, scaling model size improves semantic reasoning but not necessarily action prediction. We find that
WAMs exhibit clearer scaling behavior: the 14B model significantly outperforms the 5B model (50% vs. 21%),
with the smaller model prone to visual hallucinations that propagate to erroneous actions.
To ensure fair comparison, we also scale VLA baselines to matchDreamZero ’s size by initializing from 8B and
32B pretrained VLMs (Yang et al., 2025), truncating to the first half of the transformer blocks, and attaching
DiT-based action modules following Bjorck et al. (2025). As shown in Table 4, larger VLAs still fail to learn
from diverse data (0% task progress), often hovering near objects without making contact. This suggests that
scaling model capacity alone does not address VLAs’ difficulty with diverse data distributions.
Q3. Does autoregressive architecture outperform bidirectional?
We compareDreamZero’s autoregressive (AR) architecture against a bidirectional (BD) variant. While task
progress is similar (Table 4), the AR model produces substantially smoother motions—backpropagating through
entire action sequences enables better temporal consistency. Additionally, AR inference is 3–4× faster due to
KV caching.
6. Discussion and Future Work
Scaling Laws of WAMs.We have identified that leveraging larger video backbone model and training on
diverse data boosts downstream performance in Table 4. However, we still have lacking evidence for scaling
laws for robot foundation models, specifically for WAMs. Similar to scaling laws for language models (Kaplan
et al., 2020), scaling laws for WAMs depending on the model size, dataset size, and the training compute need
to be explored to determine the optimal configuration to extract the maximal capability of WAMs. We expect
that the tendency of scaling WAMs to be different from VLAs, showing a more direct scaling law for actions.
We leave deep investigation on scaling laws for WAMs as future work.
Learning from In-the-wild Human Data.Although we have investigated leveraging egocentric human data to
boost the performance on unseen tasks (Section 5), our experiments are still constrained to small scale in-lab
data (only 12 minutes). Recently, a large amount of human video data has been released that has more diverse
distribution compared to robot data (Chen et al., 2026; Grauman et al., 2022; Hoque et al., 2025). Since WAMs
are pretrained on diverse internet video data, we hypothesize that leveraging large-scale egocentric human
video data that are related to robot manipulation tasks would lead to stronger transfer to downstream robot
tasks compared to current VLAs. We leave this direction as future work.
Faster Inference.Through model and system optimizations, we enableDreamZero to run at 7Hz using 2
GB200s. However, compared to current VLAs which runs up to over 20Hz on consumer GPUs,DreamZero
is still computationally expensive due the large parameter size and the iterative denoising nature of video
models. In the future, if smaller video backbone models also have strong generalization capability, WAMs could
potentially be utilized as a real-time System 1 model on a lightweight edge device.
Long-horizon Reasoning.Current DreamZero architecture functions primarily as a System 1 model.
Although DreamZero has a concept of visual memory, it is currently short-horizon (6 seconds). Robust
long-horizon execution will require either a System 2 planner or WAMs with significantly extended context
18

=== PDF page 19 ===
World Action Models are Zero-shot Policies
windows. For the former, both modular dual-system architectures (Shi et al., 2025) and unified approaches
(Deng et al., 2025) offer promising directions. For the latter, techniques from video-based world models
that maintain coherent generation over extended horizons (Ball et al., 2025; HunyuanWorld, 2025) could be
adapted to expand WAM context length.
High-Precision Tasks.While DreamZero generalizes broadly across tasks and environments, it inherits
limitations common to behavior cloning on tasks requiring sub-centimeter precision, such as key insertion
or fine assembly. Our diverse pretraining strategy prioritizes breadth, which may underrepresent the dense
demonstrations needed for these high-precision manipulation. That said, recent work (Kim et al., 2026) showed
promising results that WAMs may actually hold an advantage for high-precision manipulation tasks with
millimeter tolerance, an encouraging signal that the trade-off between broad generalization and fine-grained
dexterity may be reconcilable with further investigation.
Embodiment Design for WAMs.We hypothesize two key factors will shape the best robot embodiments for
future WAM development: (1)Degrees of freedom: Higher-DOF robots will require more play data to learn an
accurate implicit IDM, as the mapping from visual futures to motor commands grows combinatorially with
kinematic complexity. Quantifying the accuracy of implicit IDMs remains a challenge. (2)Human similarity:
Embodiments that more closely resemble humans—particularly humanoids with dexterous manipulation
capabilities—may transfer more efficiently despite higher DOF, as they can leverage both the motion priors
from video pretraining and the massive scale of human egocentric videos. These factors pull in opposite
directions—yet human-like embodiments may win out by trading mechanical simplicity for access to web-scale
human data—the fuel for next-generation robot foundation models.
7. Acknowledgment
This work would not have been possible without our incredible robot operators: Alec Nagal, Inho Rha, Ava
Yazdanfar, Sally Huynh, Rachit Deo, Alaa Eltayeb, Andres Rocha, Brian Dang, Cher Choi, Cristaldo Campos,
Ethan Sushil Dhilpe, Jeremy Chimienti, Leilee Naderi, Manish Shah, Manoj Hallegere, Nick Aguilar, Paul
Truong, Rahul Sampagaon, Shreya Raj, Nadia Laswi, Amitoj Sandhu, Omkaar Buddhikot, and Wesley Durbano.
We also thank Pranav Atreya for their support on integrating DreamZero-Droid into RoboArena Benchmark.
We also thank Danyi Chen, Ming-Yu Liu, and Spencer Huang for their continuous support, and Nishanth Kumar,
KR Zentner, Fernando Castaneda Garcia-Rozas, Zhengyi Luo, Yunfan Jiang, and Max Li for fruitful discussions.
19

=== PDF page 20 ===
World Action Models are Zero-shot Policies
A. Comparison with Alternative World Model Architectures
The term “world model” encompasses a broad family of approaches beyond video-based prediction. Here we
discuss how WAMs differ from these alternatives.
Latent-Space World Models.Joint Embedding Predictive Architectures (JEPAs) (Assran et al., 2023, 2025;
Bardes et al., 2024; LeCun, 2022) predict future states in abstract latent spaces rather than pixel space,
offering computational efficiency and the ability to discard unpredictable details. V-JEPA 2 (Assran et al., 2025)
demonstrates this approach on robotics, achieving zero-shot planning on manipulation tasks after post-training
on 62 hours of robot data. Similarly, the Dreamer series (Hafner et al., 2019, 2020, 2023, 2025) learns
compact latent dynamics models for model-based reinforcement learning. However, these approaches model
dynamics as𝑝(𝑠𝑡+1|𝑠𝑡,𝑎𝑡)—predicting next state conditioned on current state and action—and thus require
goal-conditioned planning or search at test time to yield trajectories.
3D Point Cloud World Models.PointWorld (Huang et al., 2025) unifies state and action in a shared 3D spatial
domain, predicting scene dynamics as 3D point flows conditioned on robot actions. This formulation enables
embodiment-agnostic learning and real-time integration with model-predictive control (MPC). However, like
latent world models, it requires explicit optimization (e.g., MPPI sampling) at inference to generate action
trajectories.
Key Distinction.These alternative approaches share a common characteristic: they model forward dynamics
and require separate inverse dynamics models or explicit planning/search procedures at deployment. In
contrast, WAMs jointly model𝑝(o𝑡:𝑡+𝐻,a𝑡:𝑡+𝐻|o0:𝑡,c), directly producing action trajectories aligned with
predicted visual futures without test-time optimization. This enables real-time closed-loop control at 7Hz—a
frequency that would be challenging for search-based methods—while inheriting rich spatiotemporal priors
from video pretraining.
B. Bidirectional vs. Autoregressive WAMs
Put the black objects into the drawer and close the drawer.
T=0 T=30T=20
**Sampling Point**
Bidirectional 
 ... ...
Video Subsampling
Action Sampling Mismatch
Mismatch
Autorgressive
 ... ...
Video SamplingVideo ContextVideo Context
Action Sampling
Figure 13:Bidirectional vs. Autoregressive WAMs.When the sampling point falls mid-task (T=20), bidirec-
tional WAMs must subsample video to align with the language caption, distorting native FPS and degrading
video-action alignment. Autoregressive WAMs avoid this trade-off by conditioning on video context, preserving
both language-video correspondence and native frame rate.
20

=== PDF page 21 ===
World Action Models are Zero-shot Policies
Figure13illustratesakeychallengeforbidirectionalWAMswhentrainingclosed-loopsystems. Givenalanguage
annotation in a given long-horizon demonstration, the model must learn that the instruction corresponds to
a specific video interval. In bidirectional architectures, without subsampling, the model receives a language
instruction (e.g., ’put the black objects into the drawer’) but usually generates video covering only a fraction of
the task interval, causing the language to describe actions not yet visible in the predicted frames. This mismatch
leads to significant language-following degradation, as measured via an internal video prediction benchmark.
A natural solution is to subsample the video to match the task caption interval. However, this creates a new
problem for closed-loop training: we need the model to receive observations from arbitrary points within a
task—not just the beginning. When the sampling point falls mid-task (e.g., T=20 in Figure 13), subsampling
distorts the native FPS, making video-action alignment substantially harder to learn.
Autoregressive WAMs can sidestep this dilemma. By conditioning on video context rather than subsampling,
they preserve both the language-video correspondence and the native frame rate, enabling tight alignment
across all three modalities: language, video, and action.
C. Model and Training details
C0 Z1 Y1 C1 Z2 Y2 C2 Z3 Y3
C0
Z1
Y1
C1
Z2
Y2
C2
Z3
Y3
C0 Z1 Y1 C1 Z2 Y2 C2 Z3 Y3
Z1
Y1
Z2
Y2
Z3
Y3
(b) Attention mask (Inference)(a) Attention mask (Training)
: self-attention
: KV-cache
Figure 14:Attention startegy ofDreamZero .(a) QKV Self-Attention mask for DreamZero training. Y-axis
shows the Query (Q) and X-axis shows the Key/Value (KV). Given conditioning frames (C0, C1, C2), we train
the model to predict the velocities of next frames (Z1, Z2, Z3) and actions (Y1, Y2, Y3). (b) During inference,
we compute the KV-cache of conditional frames and concatenate them to predict the action and frames. For
example, Y3 (action) is able to attend to C0, C1, and C2, taking into account previous visual observations as
history to predict the current actions during both training and inference. Note that the C0, C1, and C2 during
inference is replaced with the GT observations.
We visualize the attention mask for training and inference in Figure 14. ForDreamZero , we set each chunk
as𝐾= 2 latent frames. From preliminary results, we have observed that𝐾= 2 outperforms𝐾= 1 empirically.
We set the number of chunks𝑀= 4 by default. If the trajectory length is shorter than𝑀= 4 ,𝑀 can be smaller
than 4. For Agibot training data, the video is sampled at 5FPS ratio and action is sampled at 30Hz. We use the
action horizon of𝐻= 48 . Therefore, the video and action span 1.6 seconds per chunk. For DROID training, the
video is sampled at 5FPS ratio and action is sampled at 15Hz. We use the action horizon of𝐻= 24 . Therefore,
same as Agibot, the video and action span 1.6 seconds per chunk. The maximum context length is 8 latent
frames (4x2), which is equivalent to 33 raw frames, spanning 6.6 seconds. We leave increasing the visual
context for WAMs as future work.
21

=== PDF page 22 ===
World Action Models are Zero-shot Policies
Algorithm 1DreamZero Training (Flow Matching)
1:Input:Dataset𝒟, Text conditionc
2:Hyperparams:Number of chunks𝑀
3:Model:u 𝜃 (Joint Video-Action DiT)
4:whilenot convergeddo
5:Sample trajectory𝜏∼𝒟
6: Encode video to clean latentsz1:𝑀
1 , normalize
actionsa 1:𝑀
1
7:Split𝜏into𝑀chunks
8:for𝑘= 1,...,𝑀do◁Chunk-wise Training
9: Define clean context𝒞𝑘←{(z 𝑗
1,a𝑗
1)}𝑘−1
𝑗=1 ◁
TF History
10:Sample timestep𝑡 𝑘∼𝒰(0,1)
11:// Optional: DreamZero-Flash Decoupling
12:ifFlash Modethen
13:𝑡 𝑣𝑖𝑑∼Beta(7,1), 𝑡𝑎𝑐𝑡∼𝒰(0,1)
14:else
15:𝑡 𝑣𝑖𝑑←𝑡 𝑘, 𝑡𝑎𝑐𝑡←𝑡 𝑘
16:end if
17:Sample noisez 𝑘
0,a𝑘
0∼𝒩(0,I)
18:Interpolate (Eq. 2):
19:z 𝑘
𝑡←𝑡 𝑣𝑖𝑑z𝑘
1 + (1−𝑡 𝑣𝑖𝑑)z𝑘
0
20:a 𝑘
𝑡←𝑡 𝑎𝑐𝑡a𝑘
1 + (1−𝑡 𝑎𝑐𝑡)a𝑘
0
21:Predict velocity:
22:v 𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑑←u 𝜃([z𝑘
𝑡,a𝑘
𝑡 ];𝒞𝑘,c,q 𝑘,𝑡𝑘)
23:Target vel.v 𝑘 := [z𝑘
1,a𝑘
1]−[z 𝑘
0,a𝑘
0]
24:Lossℒ←||v 𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑑−v𝑘||2 ◁Eq. 3
25:Update𝜃←𝜃−𝜂∇ℒ
26:end for
27:end while
Algorithm 2 DreamZero Inference (Closed-Loop
Control)
1: Input:Instruction c, Initial Imageoinit, Stateqinit
2:Hyperparams:Steps𝑁, Cache Thresh𝜖
3:Init:𝒦𝒱←∅,v prev←∅,q curr←q init
4:// 1. Prefill Cache (Context Phase,𝑡= 0)
5:z init←VAE(o init)
6:// Pass clean video, no action/state
7:(·,·,𝒦𝒱)←u 𝜃([zinit,∅];𝒦𝒱,c,∅,
𝑡= 0,update=True)
8:// 2. Autoregressive Loop
9:whiletask not donedo
10:Samplex 0 = [z 0,a 0]∼𝒩(0,I)◁Noise at
𝑡= 0
11:// Joint Denoising (Flow Matching𝑡: 0→1)
12:for𝑖= 0...𝑁−1do
13:𝑡 𝑖,𝑡𝑖+1←Scheduler(𝑖,𝑁)
14:// Optimization: DiT Caching
15: if vprev ̸=∅andCosSim(v prev,v last)> 𝜖
then
16:v 𝑖←v prev
17:else
18:(v vid
𝑖 ,v act
𝑖 ,·)←u 𝜃(x𝑡𝑖 ;𝒦𝒱,c,q curr,
𝑡𝑖,update=False)
19:v 𝑖←[v vid
𝑖 ,v act
𝑖 ]
20:v prev←v 𝑖
21:end if
22:// Solver Step
23:x 𝑡𝑖+1←x 𝑡𝑖 +Step(v𝑖,𝑡𝑖,𝑡𝑖+1)
24:end for
25:// 3. Execution & Cache Update
26:^ a←Filter(x action
1 )◁Clean Action𝑡= 1
27:Async Execute^ aon Robot
28:// Critical: Inject Ground Truth (𝑡= 0)
29:Real observationo real,q real
30:q curr←q real,z real←VAE(o real)
31:(·,·,𝒦𝒱)←u 𝜃([zreal,∅];𝒦𝒱,c,∅,
𝑡= 0,update=True)
32:*Discard predicted video latent fromx 1
33:end while
D. Real-time Execution Details
This appendix provides additional details on the system-, implementation-, and model-level optimizations
introduced in Section 3.2.
D.1. System-level Optimizations
CFG Parallelism.To address the computation bottleneck inherent to DiT, we employed Classifier-Free Guidance
(CFG) parallelism. Standard CFG requires two distinct model evaluations—the conditional and unconditional
forward passes—which are typically executed sequentially. We parallelized these operations by distributing the
conditioned and null-conditioned score estimations across two independent GPUs. This effectively reduced the
latency per diffusion step by nearly half, with no impact on overall model quality.
22

=== PDF page 23 ===
World Action Models are Zero-shot Policies
DiT Caching.The iterative nature of DiT inference imposes a significant computational bottleneck for real-
time applications. Previous efforts have focused on training-free caching techniques that exploit temporal
redundancies across diffusion steps. TeaCache (Liu et al., 2024) leverages the relative𝐿1 difference between
timestep-embedding modulated inputs as a heuristic to estimate output variance and skip redundant com-
putations, while TaylorSeer (Liu et al., 2025) employs higher-order Taylor expansions to extrapolate future
latent states from historical derivatives. InDreamZero , we implement a caching mechanism that exploits the
directional consistency of velocity vectors learned during flow matching.
During inference, the model tracks cosine similarity between successive velocity predictions. When this metric
exceeds a predefined threshold (𝜏), the model bypasses the DiT forward pass for a window of a few steps
by reusing the cached velocity vector. This adaptive scheduling concentrates computational resources on
critical trajectory updates, reducing the average number of DiT steps from 16 to 4 with minimal degradation to
predicted video and action fidelity.
Asynchronous Execution.Sequential execution of action blocks introduces stalls while waiting for upstream
models to produce the next chunk, making the robot more open-loop and less reactive to real-time state
changes, especially with large chunk sizes. We use an asynchronous execution mechanism that decouples
model inference from action execution, allowing both stages to run concurrently. The motion controller always
executes the most recent action scheduled for the current timestamp, while the inference module always uses
the latest observation.
D.2. Implementation-level Optimizations
Torch Compile and CUDA Graphs.Inference is predominantly CPU-bound due to kernel launch overheads
and Python execution. We employ torch.compile with CUDA Graphs (mode="reduce-overhead") and enforce
full graph capture (fullgraph=True) to eliminate graph breaks. In addition to reducing CPU overhead,
torch.compile decreases memory bandwidth requirements through operator fusion. We apply compilation
to five model components: the diffusion transformer, scheduler, text encoder, image encoder, and VAE. We
enforce static shapes (dynamic=False), which results in multiple recompilations during the first inference
trajectory due to the evolving KV cache shape. From the second trajectory onward, inference proceeds without
recompilation. To enable error-free compilation, we refactor the model to follow a functional programming
paradigm: the KV cache is passed explicitly as input and returned as output of the compiled function.
Post-Training Quantization.We implement a mixed-precision strategy using the NVIDIA Model Optimizer
(NVIDIA Corporation, 2024) on Blackwell (SM100) architecture. We quantize model weights and activations
to NVFP4 (E2M1) while maintaining sensitive QKV projections and Softmax operations in FP8 (E4M3). To
preserve numerical stability, we employ FP16 accumulation for non-linear operations including LayerNorm and
RoPE. This configuration improves latency with negligible impact on generated video and action quality.
Kernel-Level Enhancements.We use the cuDNN backend for dot-product attention via PyTorch Scaled
Dot-Product Attention (SDPA), requiring PyTorch version≥2.9. Earlier versions of the Transformer Engine
library may also access these efficient cuDNN kernels.
Scheduler Optimizations.The initial Flow UniPC scheduler (Zhao et al., 2023) implementation required CPU
execution for several operations, causing frequent CPU–GPU synchronization and GPU stalls. We migrated
these operations to GPU, eliminating unnecessary CPU overhead.
D.3. Model-level Optimizations —DreamZero-Flash
In the standardDreamZero formulation, video and action modalities share the same denoising timestep𝑡𝑘:
𝑡video
𝑘 =𝑡 action
𝑘 =𝑡 𝑘, 𝑡 𝑘∼𝒰(0,1)(4)
23

=== PDF page 24 ===
World Action Models are Zero-shot Policies
DreamZero -Flash decouples these schedules by biasing video timesteps toward lower values (higher noise)
while keeping action timesteps uniform:
𝑡video
𝑘 = 1−𝜂, 𝜂∼Beta(𝛼,𝛽), 𝑡 action
𝑘 ∼𝒰(0,1)(5)
where𝛼>𝛽 (e.g.,𝛼= 7,𝛽= 1 ). SinceBeta(𝛼,𝛽) with𝛼>𝛽 concentrates mass near𝜂≈1 , the transformed
variable𝑡video
𝑘 = 1−𝜂 is biased toward 0, corresponding to high-noise video states. The noisy samples become:
z𝑘
𝑡video
𝑘
=𝑡 video
𝑘 z𝑘
1 + (1−𝑡 video
𝑘 )z𝑘
0,a 𝑘
𝑡action
𝑘
=𝑡 action
𝑘 a𝑘
1 + (1−𝑡 action
𝑘 )a𝑘
0 (6)
For Beta(7,1), E[𝜂] = 0.875 , yielding E[𝑡video
𝑘 ] = 0.125 compared to 0.5 in the coupled setting. This exposes
the model during training to configurations where actions must be predicted from predominantly noisy visual
context (Figure 5), aligning training with rapid-action-denoising inference where actions denoise from noise
level1→0in one step while video remains partially noisy.
Action Chunk Smoothing.Generated action chunks may contain high-frequency noise from denoising. We
apply filtering to ensure stable real-world behavior: first upsampling the action chunk to2× resolution via
cubic interpolation, then applying a Savitzky-Golay filter (window size 21, polynomial order 3) to suppress
noise while preserving trajectory shape, and finally downsampling to original resolution.
E. AgiBot Diverse Data Collection Strategy
Our data collection philosophy prioritizesdiversity over repetition. Unlike conventional approaches that collect
hundreds of demonstrations per task in controlled lab settings, we collect data across 22 real-world environ-
ments spanning homes, restaurants, supermarkets, coffee shops, offices, warehouses, laboratories, and hotels
(Figure 15).
E.1. Daily Collection Workflow
Each day, teleoperators receive a printed task sheet listing available tasks for their assigned area (e.g., kitchen
area, checkout counter). For each episode, they select threetasks(usually very coarse-grained like “tidy
up") from this sheet and execute them consecutively. Each task typically requires 1–2 minutes, resulting in
approximately 5-minute episodes.
At the end of each day, teleoperators log the frequency count for each task. Once a task was collected in 50
episodes, it is deprecated and removed from the task sheet. Teleoperators are incentivized to propose new tasks,
which they inevitably must do as existing tasks become deprecated. This mechanism continuously expands the
task distribution throughout data collection, yielding a long-tail of diverse behaviors.
Because we prioritize utility over repetition, our tasks are naturally more coarse-grained than typical robot
learning datasets. Examples include organizing items, ground garbage cleaning, shopping basket return, toy
box tidying, table tidying, and clothes hanging—but the full set grows organically as the collection progresses.
E.2. Multi-Task Episode Structure
Thethree-taskepisodestructureservestwopurposes: itmaximizesdiversitywithineachepisodeandencourages
the model to learn smooth task transitions. For example, a single episode might involve (1) clearing dishes
from a table, (2) wiping the table surface, and (3) organizing condiments. This design yields an average of 42
subtasks per episode (Figure 6), significantly more than typical single-task datasets.
This combination of environment diversity, task deprecation with forced expansion, and multi-task episodes
produces a heterogeneous dataset that differs substantially from conventional robot learning corpora. Rather
24

=== PDF page 25 ===
World Action Models are Zero-shot Policies
Figure 15:Data Collection Environments.We collect teleoperation data across 22 diverse real-world environ-
ments, including offices, laboratories, restaurants, supermarkets, coffee shops, warehouses, homes, hotels, and
retail stores. This diversity enablesDreamZero to generalize to unseen environments without task-specific
fine-tuning.
than learning narrow task-specific policies,DreamZero learns generalizable skills that transfer across envi-
ronments and tasks. Seehttps://dreamzero0.github.io/training_data_gallery/ for examples of these
coarse-grained tasks (the videos shown in the website concatenated each coarse-grained tasks)
F. AgiBot Evaluation Details
We provide the evaluation setup for both seen tasks in Tables 5 and unseen tasks in Table 6 for Agibot. Each row
shows the initial frame and instruction for 4 robots. We conduct 2 rollouts per robot for each task by varying
the objects, locations and the robot arm to use for the task (The current table mostly shows the evaluation
using the left arm).
G. DROID Evaluation Details
We provide the evaluation setup for both seen and unseen tasks in Tables 7a and 7b for DROID. We conduct 2
rollouts per task by varying the location of the objects.
25

=== PDF page 26 ===
World Action Models are Zero-shot Policies
Table 5:Seen Tasks Evaluation Setup for AgiBot G1
Category # Task Image Instruction Image Instruction Image Instruction Image Instruction
1PnP Fruit
The left arm picks up the
Banana on the table and
places it in the Blue Plate.
The left arm picks up the lime
on the table and places it on
the light green plate.
The left arm picks up the
peach on the table and places
it on the baking pan.
The left arm picks up the
green pear on the table and
places it on the blue
checkered bowl.
PnP
Easy 2 Taking out
Fruit
The left arm picks up the
Mango from the plastic bag
and places it into the Wooden
Basket
The left arm picks up the
yellow pear from the plastic
bag and places it onto the
blue tray.
The left arm picks up the
purple grapes from the plastic
bag and places it into the
brown basket.
The left arm picks up the
watermelon from the plastic
bag and places it onto the
Blue Plate.
3 Wipe the
Mess
The left arm uses a sponge to
wipe the coffee spill off the
table.
The left arm used a black
cloth to wipe the white
powder off the table.
The left arm uses a napkin to
wipe the creamer spill off the
table.
The left arm used a paper
towel to wipe the water off
the table.
4 PnP
Fork/Spoon
The left arm picks up the Pink
Fork from the table and places
it onto the blue plate.
The left arm picks up the
orange fork from the table and
places it into the glass cup
The left arm picks up the light
blue fork from the table and
places it onto the orange plate
The left arm picks up the
green fork from the table and
places it into the blue plate.
PnP
Hard
5 Put Pen in
Holder
The left arm picks up the Red
Marker pen from the table and
placed it into the pen holder.
The left arm picked up the
black marker from the table
and placed it into the pen
holder.
The left arm picked up the
white marker pen from the
table and placed it into the
pen holder.
The left arm picked up the
mechanical pencil from the
table and placed it into the
pen holder.
6 Put Cup on
Coaster
The left arm picks up the clear
cup from the table and places
it on the grey coaster.
The left arm picks up the
plastic cup from the table and
places it on the blue coaster.
The left arm picks up the
plastic cup from the table and
places it on the white coaster.
The left arm picks up the pink
cup from the table and places
it on the gray coaster.
7 Stack
Bowls/Cups
The robot reaches to grip the
green bowl, moves it to the
middle wooden bowl, and
releases it to stack. It then
reaches to grip the white bowl,
moves it to the same location,
and releases it onto the stack.
The robot reaches its left arm
to grip the blue plate, moves it
to the middle light green plate,
and releases it to stack. It then
reaches its right arm to grip
the red plate, moves it over
the middle stack of plates, and
releases it to finish the task.
The robot reaches its left arm
to grip the paper bowl, moves
it over the middle white bowl,
and releases it to stack. It
then reaches its left arm to
grip the blue checkered bowl,
moves it over the stack, and
releases it to finish the task.
The robot reaches its left arm
to grip the pink bowl, moves it
over the middle beige bowl,
and releases it to stack. It
then reaches its left arm to
grip the white bowl, moves it
over the stack, and releases it
onto the stack.
8 Folding
Shirts
Both arms grip the bottom of
the light grey short sleeve and
fold it toward the middle.
They then pull the short sleeve
across the table to the edge.
Next, both arms grasp the top
of the shirt and fold it down to
the middle. Finally, the right
arm grips the collar and folds
it down to complete the task.
Both arms fold the bottom of
the green short sleeve to the
middle. They then pull the
shirt toward the edge of the
table. Next, both arms fold the
top of the shirt down to the
middle. Finally, the right arm
grasps the collar and folds it
down to complete the task.
Both arms fold the bottom of
the logo short sleeve to the
middle. They then pull the
shirt toward the edge of the
table. Next, both arms fold the
top of the shirt down to the
middle. Finally, the right arm
grasps the collar and folds it
down to complete the task.
Both arms fold the bottom of
the gray short sleeve to the
middle. They then pull the
shirt toward the edge of the
table. Next, both arms fold
the top of the shirt down to
the middle. Finally, the left
arm grasps the collar and
folds it down to finish.
Contact
Rich 9 Folding
Shorts
Both arms fold the bottom of
the tan shorts toward the
middle. Then, the right arm
folds the shorts in half from
right to left to complete the
fold.
Both arms fold the bottom of
the grey shorts toward the
middle. Then, the right arm
folds the shorts in half from
right to left to complete the
fold.
Both arms fold the bottom of
the white shorts toward the
middle. Then, the right arm
folds the shorts in half from
right to left to complete the
task.
Both arms fold the bottom of
the green shorts toward the
middle. Then, the right arm
folds the shorts in half from
right to left to complete the
fold.
10 Stacking
Clothes
Both arms pick up the black
shirt and place it on the stack
of clothes.
Both arms pick up the white
shirt and place it on the gray
towel.
Both arms pick up the black
hoodie and place it on the
stack of clothes.
Both arms pick up the dark
gray shirt and place it on the
stack of clothes.
26

=== PDF page 27 ===
World Action Models are Zero-shot Policies
Table 6:Unseen Tasks Evaluation Setup for AgiBot G1
# Task Image Instruction Image Instruction Image Instruction Image Instruction
1 Untie
Shoelaces
The robot coordinates both
arms to simultaneously grasp
the two loops of the shoelace.
It then moves both arms
outward in synchronized,
opposing directions until the
shoelace is fully untied.
The robot reaches its left arm
to grasp the blue box and hold
it steady. It then reaches its
right arm toward the blue
ribbon and moves it to untie
the knot.
The robot coordinates both
arms to simultaneously grasp
the two loops of the knot of
the box. It then moves both
arms outward in
synchronized, opposing
directions until the knot of the
box is fully untied.
The robot coordinates both
arms to simultaneously grasp
the two loops of the knot of
the package. It then moves
both arms outward in
synchronized, opposing
directions until the knot of the
package is fully untied.
2 Remove
/Put Hat
The robot reaches its right
arm to gasp the crown and
lifts it to remove it from the
mannequin’s head.
The robot reaches its left arm
to grasp the hat and lifts it to
remove it from the
mannequin’s head.
The robot reaches its left arm
to grasp the hat and lifts it to
remove it from the
mannequin’s head.
The robot reaches its left arm
to grasp the hat and lifts it to
remove it from the
mannequin’s head.
3 Draw
Circle
The robot reaches its left arm
to pick up the red marker and
the left arm moves the marker
to draw a circle on the book.
The robot reaches its right
arm to pick up the marker and
the right arm draws a circle
on the whiteboard with the
marker.
The robot reaches its left arm
to pick up the black marker
and the left arm moves the
marker to draw a circle on the
paper
The robot reaches its right
arm to pick up the marker and
the right arm moves the
marker to draw a llne on the
whiteboard.
4 Take out
Straw
The left arm holds the cup on
the table. Then the right arm
pulls the straw out of the cup.
The left arm holds the cup on
the table. Then the right arm
pulls the straw out of the cup.
The left arm holds the cup on
the table. Then the right arm
pulls the straw out of the cup.
The right arm holds the cup
on the table.Then the left arm
pulls the straw out of the cup.
5 Cube
Stacking
The robot reaches its right
arm to pick up the green cube,
moves it over the red cube,
and releases it to stack. It
then reaches its right arm to
pick up the yellow cube,
moves it over the stack, and
releases it onto the green cube
to finish the task.
The robot reaches its right
arm to pick up the red cube,
moves it over the colorful
cube, and releases it to stack.
It then reaches its right arm to
pick up the green cube, moves
it over the red cube, and
releases it to finish the tower.
The robot reaches its right
arm to pick up the white cube,
moves it over the green cube,
and releases it to stack. It
then reaches its left arm to
pick up the blue cube, moves
it over the stack, and releases
it onto the white cube to
finish the task.
The robot reaches its right
arm to pick up the red cube,
moves it over the blue cube,
and releases it to begin the
stack. It then reaches its left
arm to pick up the orange
cube, moves it over the stack,
and releases it onto the red
cube to complete the
three-tier structure.
6Painting
The left arm grabs the brush.
Then left arm paints with the
brush on the notebook
The right arm grabs the brush.
Then right arm paints with
the brush on the paper
The left arm grabs the brush.
Then left arm paints with the
brush on the notebook
The right arm grabs the brush.
Then right arm paints with
the brush on the notebook
7Ironing
The robot reaches its left arm
to grasp the iron and moves it
across the shorts to iron it.
The robot reaches its right
arm to grasp the iron and
moves it across the shirt to
iron it.
The robot reaches its left arm
to grasp the iron and moves it
across the shirt to iron it.
The robot reaches its left arm
to grasp the iron and moves it
across the shirt to iron it.
8 Shake
Hands
The right arm of the robot
grasp the human hand to
shake hands. It then initiates a
rhythmic up-and-down motion
to perform the handshake.
The left arm shakes the hand
of the human up and down
The right arm shakes the hand
of the human up and down
The left arm of the robot grasp
the human hand to shake
hands. It then initiates a
rhythmic up-and-down motion
to perform the handshake.
9 Folding
(Map)
The left arm grabs the left
side of the map. The right arm
folds the right side of the map.
The left arm folds the left side
of the map.
The left arm grabs the left
side of the map. The right arm
folds the right side of the map.
The left arm folds the left side
of the map.
The right arm grabs the right
side of the map. The left arm
folds the left side of the map.
The right arm folds the right
side of the map.
The right arm grabs the right
side of the map.The left arm
folds the left side of the map.
The right arm folds the right
side of the map.
10 Pulling
Cart
The robot reaches its right
arm to grasp the cart and
pulls it.
The robot reaches its left arm
to grasp the cart and pulls it.
The robot reaches its right
arm to grasp the cart and
pulls it.
The robot reaches its left arm
to grasp the cart and pulls it
forward.
27

=== PDF page 28 ===
World Action Models are Zero-shot Policies
(a)Seen tasks on DROID
# Image Instruction # Image Instruction
1
 Move the cup forward then put
the marker inside the cup 11
 Move the bowl on the left to the
right side of the table.
2
 Put the marker in the blue box12
 Pick up the pencil and put it on
the bowl
3
Remove the pair of gloves from
the open drawer and put it on the
table
13
 Pick the marker up from the table
and put it in the bowl
4
 Put the marker on table14
 Place the bowl next to the marker
5
 Pick up the apple and put it in the
basket 15
 Remove a lemon from the bowl
6
 Put the towel on the white cup16
 Move the grapes to the left
7
 Put the towel in the pan17
 Move the green grapes backwards
8
 Put the hat on the table18
 Put the bread inside the toaster
9
 Put the pair of scissors into the
drawer 19
 Push the lever on the bread
toaster downwards
10
 Put the towel in the basket20
 Pick up the cup from the bowl
and put it in the other cups
(b)Tasks with unseen verbs on DROID
# Image Instruction # Image Instruction
1
 Orient the mug so the handle is
to the right 11
 Hook the hat onto the tripod
2
 Fanthe burger12
 Pinch the binder clip to release
the papers
3
 Slice the bread with the knife13
 Withdraw the bread from the
toaster and place on the plate
4
 Type ’hi’ on the keyboard14
 Cinch the drawstring of the bag
5
 Extricate the straw from the cup15
 Dispense the mustard onto the
bread
6
 Revealthe object under the cup16
 Bake the croissant in the oven
7
 Match the objects to their
corresponding bowl 17
 Fry the vegetables in the pan with
the spatula
8
 Maneuver the blocks through the
matching hole 18
 Depress the lever on the toaster
9
 Affix the magnet to the tray19
 Elevate the yellow block to the
highest platform
10
 Combine the nuts and batteries20
 Weavethe wire through the holes
of the box
H. Failure Case Analysis
In Figure 16, we illustrate the generated video byDreamZero and execution rollout for both AgiBot and
DROID. Overall, the robot execution follows the visual plan generated on the video modality side. For AgiBot
video generated byDreamZero , the robot picks up the marker with left arm and passes the marker to the
right arm. Consistent with the generated video, for the execution rollout, the robot picks up the top part
of the marker, but instead of drawing a line on the whiteboard, the left arm passes the marker to the right
arm. For DROID video generated byDreamZero , the robot picks up the bread instead of opening the oven
first. Aligned with the generated video, for the execution rollout, the robot picks up the bread first instead of
opening the oven, leading to the rollout being stuck after the robot has reached to the oven with bread held.
This implies that improving the language following and visual planning capability of WAMs could potentially
lead to better action execution.
28

=== PDF page 29 ===
World Action Models are Zero-shot Policies
Generated
Execution
Generated
Execution
Pick up the marker and draw a line on the whiteboard.
Bake the croissant in the oven
Figure 16:Illustration of generated and executed pair.We illustrate the generated video and action execution
pair. These two examples show scenarios where the video predictionfailedand the robot followed the failed
plan. DreamZero failed to generate video of the Agibot G1 robot drawing in the whiteboard and failed to
generate video of the Franka robot opening the oven first.
29

=== PDF page 30 ===
World Action Models are Zero-shot Policies
References
[1] Michael S Albergo, Nicholas M Boffi, and Eric Vanden-Eijnden. Stochastic interpolants: A unifying
framework for flows and diffusions.arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.08797, 2023. 7
[2] Arslan Ali, Junjie Bai, Maciej Bala, Yogesh Balaji, Aaron Blakeman, Tiffany Cai, Jiaxin Cao, Tianshi Cao,
Elizabeth Cha, Yu-Wei Chao, et al. World simulation with video foundation models for physical ai.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2511.00062, 2025. 7
[3] Mahmoud Assran, Quentin Duval, Ishan Misra, Piotr Bojanowski, Pascal Vincent, Michael Rabbat, Yann
LeCun, and Nicolas Ballas. Self-supervised learning from images with a joint-embedding predictive
architecture. InProceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2023.
20
[4] Mido Assran, Adrien Bardes, David Fan, Quentin Garrido, Russell Howes, Mojtaba Komeili, Matthew
Muckley, Ammar Rizvi, Claire Roberts, Koustuv Sinha, et al. V-JEPA 2: Self-supervised video models
enable understanding, prediction and planning.arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.09985, 2025. 5, 20
[5] Philip J. Ball, Jakob Bauer, Frank Belletti, Bethanie Brownfield, Ariel Ephrat, Shlomi Fruchter, Agrim
Gupta, Kristian Holsheimer, Aleksander Holynski, Jiri Hron, Christos Kaplanis, Marjorie Limont, Matt
McGill, Yanko Oliveira, Jack Parker-Holder, Frank Perbet, Guy Scully, Jeremy Shar, Stephen Spencer,
Omer Tov, Ruben Villegas, Emma Wang, Jessica Yung, Cip Baetu, Jordi Berbel, David Bridson, Jake Bruce,
Gavin Buttimore, Sarah Chakera, Bilva Chandra, Paul Collins, Alex Cullum, Bogdan Damoc, Vibha Dasagi,
Maxime Gazeau, Charles Gbadamosi, Woohyun Han, Ed Hirst, Ashyana Kachra, Lucie Kerley, Kristian
Kjems, Eva Knoepfel, Vika Koriakin, Jessica Lo, Cong Lu, Zeb Mehring, Alex Moufarek, Henna Nandwani,
Valeria Oliveira, Fabio Pardo, Jane Park, Andrew Pierson, Ben Poole, Helen Ran, Tim Salimans, Manuel
Sanchez, Igor Saprykin, Amy Shen, Sailesh Sidhwani, Duncan Smith, Joe Stanton, Hamish Tomlinson,
Dimple Vijaykumar, Luyu Wang, Piers Wingfield, Nat Wong, Keyang Xu, Christopher Yew, Nick Young,
Vadim Zubov, Douglas Eck, Dumitru Erhan, Koray Kavukcuoglu, Demis Hassabis, Zoubin Gharamani,
Raia Hadsell, Aäron van den Oord, Inbar Mosseri, Adrian Bolton, Satinder Singh, and Tim Rocktäschel.
Genie 3: A new frontier for world models. 2025. URLhttps://deepmind.google/discover/blog/
genie-3-a-new-frontier-for-world-models/. 19
[6] Adrien Bardes, Quentin Garrido, Jean Ponce, Michael Rabbat, Yann LeCun, Mahmoud Assran, and Nicolas
Ballas. V-JEPA: Video joint embedding predictive architecture.arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.05065, 2024. 20
[7] Jose Barreiros, Andrew Beaulieu, Aditya Bhat, Rick Cory, Eric Cousineau, Hongkai Dai, Ching-Hsin Fang,
Kunimatsu Hashimoto, Muhammad Zubair Irshad, Masha Itkina, et al. A careful examination of large
behavior models for multitask dexterous manipulation.arXiv preprint arXiv:2507.05331, 2025. 13
[8] Homanga Bharadhwaj, Debidatta Dwibedi, Abhinav Gupta, Shubham Tulsiani, Carl Doersch, Ted Xiao,
Dhruv Shah, Fei Xia, Dorsa Sadigh, and Sean Kirmani. Gen2act: Human video generation in novel
scenarios enables generalizable robot manipulation.arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.16283, 2024. 5
[9] Johan Bjorck, Fernando Castañeda, Nikita Cherniadev, Xingye Da, Runyu Ding, Linxi Fan, Yu Fang, Dieter
Fox, Fengyuan Hu, Spencer Huang, et al. Gr00t n1: An open foundation model for generalist humanoid
robots.arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.14734, 2025. 2, 4, 10, 18
[10] Kevin Black, Noah Brown, Danny Driess, Adnan Esmail, Michael Equi, Chelsea Finn, Niccolo Fusai, Lachy
Groom, Karol Hausman, Brian Ichter, et al.𝜋0: A vision-language-action flow model for general robot
control.arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.24164, 2024. 4
[11] Kevin Black, Noah Brown, Danny Driess, Adnan Esmail, Michael Equi, Chelsea Finn, Niccolo Fusai, Lachy
Groom, Karol Hausman, Brian Ichter, et al.𝜋0: A vision-language-action flow model for general robot
control.URL https://arxiv. org/abs/2410.24164, 2024. 2
30

=== PDF page 31 ===
World Action Models are Zero-shot Policies
[12] Rishi Bommasani, Drew A Hudson, Ehsan Adeli, Russ Altman, Simran Arora, Sydney von Arx, Michael S
Bernstein, Jeannette Bohg, Antoine Bosselut, Emma Brunskill, et al. On the opportunities and risks of
foundation models.arXiv preprint arXiv:2108.07258, 2021. 4
[13] Anthony Brohan, Noah Brown, Justice Carbajal, Yevgen Chebotar, Joseph Dabis, Chelsea Finn, Keerthana
Gopalakrishnan, Karol Hausman, Alex Herzog, Jasmine Hsu, Julian Ibarz, Brian Ichter, Alex Irpan, Tomas
Jackson, Sally Jesmonth, Nikhil Joshi, Ryan Julian, Dmitry Kalashnikov, Yuheng Kuang, Isabel Leal,
Kuang-Huei Lee, Sergey Levine, Yao Lu, Utsav Malla, Deeksha Manjunath, Igor Mordatch, Ofir Nachum,
Carolina Parada, Jodilyn Peralta, Emily Perez, Karl Pertsch, Jornell Quiambao, Kanishka Rao, Michael
Ryoo, Grecia Salazar, Pannag Sanketi, Kevin Sayed, Jaspiar Singh, Sumedh Sontakke, Austin Stone,
Clayton Tan, Huong Tran, Vincent Vanhoucke, Steve Vega, Quan Vuong, Fei Xia, Ted Xiao, Peng Xu,
Sichun Xu, Tianhe Yu, and Brianna Zitkovich. Rt-1: Robotics transformer for real-world control at scale.
InarXiv preprint arXiv:2212.06817, 2022. 4
[14] Anthony Brohan, Noah Brown, Justice Carbajal, Yevgen Chebotar, Xi Chen, Krzysztof Choromanski,
Tianli Ding, Danny Driess, Avinava Dubey, Chelsea Finn, Pete Florence, Chuyuan Fu, Montse Gonzalez
Arenas, Keerthana Gopalakrishnan, Kehang Han, Karol Hausman, Alex Herzog, Jasmine Hsu, Brian Ichter,
Alex Irpan, Nikhil Joshi, Ryan Julian, Dmitry Kalashnikov, Yuheng Kuang, Isabel Leal, Lisa Lee, Tsang-
Wei Edward Lee, Sergey Levine, Yao Lu, Henryk Michalewski, Igor Mordatch, Karl Pertsch, Kanishka Rao,
Krista Reymann, Michael Ryoo, Grecia Salazar, Pannag Sanketi, Pierre Sermanet, Jaspiar Singh, Anikait
Singh, Radu Soricut, Huong Tran, Vincent Vanhoucke, Quan Vuong, Ayzaan Wahid, Stefan Welker, Paul
Wohlhart, JialinWu, FeiXia, TedXiao, PengXu, SichunXu, TianheYu, andBriannaZitkovich. Rt-2: Vision-
language-action models transfer web knowledge to robotic control. InarXiv preprint arXiv:2307.15818,
2023. 2, 4
[15] Anthony Brohan, Yevgen Chebotar, Chelsea Finn, Karol Hausman, Alexander Herzog, Daniel Ho, Julian
Ibarz, Alex Irpan, Eric Jang, Ryan Julian, et al. Do as i can, not as i say: Grounding language in robotic
affordances. InConference on robot learning, pages 287–318. PMLR, 2023. 4
[16] Qingwen Bu, Yanting Yang, Jisong Cai, Shenyuan Gao, Guanghui Ren, Maoqing Yao, Ping Luo, and
Hongyang Li. Univla: Learning to act anywhere with task-centric latent actions.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2505.06111, 2025. 4
[17] Chi-Lam Cheang, Guangzeng Chen, Ya Jing, Tao Kong, Hang Li, Yifeng Li, Yuxiao Liu, Hongtao Wu,
Jiafeng Xu, Yichu Yang, et al. Gr-2: A generative video-language-action model with web-scale knowledge
for robot manipulation.arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.06158, 2024. 5
[18] Boyuan Chen, Zhuo Xu, Sean Kirmani, Brain Ichter, Dorsa Sadigh, Leonidas Guibas, and Fei Xia. Spa-
tialvlm: Endowing vision-language models with spatial reasoning capabilities. InProceedings of the
IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 14455–14465, 2024. 2
[19] Boyuan Chen, Tianyuan Zhang, Haoran Geng, Kiwhan Song, Caiyi Zhang, Peihao Li, William T Freeman,
Jitendra Malik, Pieter Abbeel, Russ Tedrake, et al. Large video planner enables generalizable robot control.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2512.15840, 2025. 5
[20] Delong Chen, Tejaswi Kasarla, Yejin Bang, Mustafa Shukor, Willy Chung, Jade Yu, Allen Bolourchi,
Theo Moutakanni, and Pascale Fung. Action100m: A large-scale video action dataset.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2601.10592, 2026. 18
[21] Chaorui Deng, Deyao Zhu, Kunchang Li, Chenhui Gou, Feng Li, Zeyu Wang, Shu Zhong, Weihao Yu,
Xiaonan Nie, Ziang Song, et al. Emerging properties in unified multimodal pretraining.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2505.14683, 2025. 19
31

=== PDF page 32 ===
World Action Models are Zero-shot Policies
[22] Kamil Dreczkowski, Pietro Vitiello, Vitalis Vosylius, and Edward Johns. Learning a thousand tasks in a
day.Science Robotics, 10(108):eadv7594, 2025. 4
[23] Danny Driess, Fei Xia, Mehdi SM Sajjadi, Corey Lynch, Aakanksha Chowdhery, Brian Ichter, Ayzaan
Wahid, Jonathan Tompson, Quan Vuong, Tianhe Yu, et al. Palm-e: An embodied multimodal language
model.arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.03378, 2023. 4
[24] Yilun Du, Sherry Yang, Bo Dai, Hanjun Dai, Ofir Nachum, Josh Tenenbaum, Dale Schuurmans, and Pieter
Abbeel. Learning universal policies via text-guided video generation.Advances in neural information
processing systems, 36:9156–9172, 2023. 5
[25] Yilun Du, Sherry Yang, Pete Florence, Fei Xia, Ayzaan Wahid, brian ichter, Pierre Sermanet, Tianhe Yu,
Pieter Abbeel, Joshua B. Tenenbaum, Leslie Pack Kaelbling, Andy Zeng, and Jonathan Tompson. Video
language planning. InThe Twelfth International Conference on Learning Representations, 2024. URL
https://openreview.net/forum?id=9pKtcJcMP3. 5
[26] Zhiyuan Feng, Zhaolu Kang, Qijie Wang, Zhiying Du, Jiongrui Yan, Shubin Shi, Chengbo Yuan, Huizhi
Liang, Yu Deng, Qixiu Li, et al. Seeing across views: Benchmarking spatial reasoning of vision-language
models in robotic scenes.arXiv preprint arXiv:2510.19400, 2025. 2
[27] Jensen Gao, Suneel Belkhale, Sudeep Dasari, Ashwin Balakrishna, Dhruv Shah, and Dorsa Sadigh. A
taxonomy for evaluating generalist robot policies.arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.01238, 2025. 4
[28] Kaifeng Gao, Jiaxin Shi, Hanwang Zhang, Chunping Wang, Jun Xiao, and Long Chen. Ca2-vdm: Ef-
ficient autoregressive video diffusion model with causal generation and cache sharing.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2411.16375, 2024. 7
[29] Gemini Robotics Team. Gemini robotics: Bringing ai into the physical world.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2503.20020, 2025. 2, 4, 5
[30] Kristen Grauman, Andrew Westbury, Eugene Byrne, Zachary Chavis, Antonino Furnari, Rohit Girdhar,
Jackson Hamburger, Hao Jiang, Miao Liu, Xingyu Liu, et al. Ego4d: Around the world in 3,000 hours of
egocentric video. InProceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition,
2022. 18
[31] Pranav Guruprasad, Yangyue Wang, Sudipta Chowdhury, Harshvardhan Sikka, and Paul Pu Liang. Bench-
marking vision, language, & action models in procedurally generated, open ended action environments.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.05540, 2025. 2
[32] Danijar Hafner, Timothy Lillicrap, Jimmy Ba, and Mohammad Norouzi. Dream to control: Learning
behaviors by latent imagination.arXiv preprint arXiv:1912.01603, 2019. 5, 20
[33] Danijar Hafner, Timothy Lillicrap, Mohammad Norouzi, and Jimmy Ba. Mastering atari with discrete
world models.arXiv preprint arXiv:2010.02193, 2020. 5, 20
[34] Danijar Hafner, Jurgis Pasukonis, Jimmy Ba, and Timothy Lillicrap. Mastering diverse domains through
world models.arXiv preprint arXiv:2301.04104, 2023. 5, 20
[35] Danijar Hafner, Wilson Yan, and Timothy Lillicrap. Training agents inside of scalable world models, 2025.
URLhttps://arxiv.org/abs/2509.24527. 20
[36] Jonathan Ho and Tim Salimans. Classifier-free diffusion guidance.arXiv preprint arXiv:2207.12598,
2022. 8
[37] Ryan Hoque, Peide Huang, David J Yoon, Mouli Sivapurapu, and Jian Zhang. Egodex: Learning dexterous
manipulation from large-scale egocentric video.arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.11709, 2025. 18
32

=== PDF page 33 ===
World Action Models are Zero-shot Policies
[38] Edward J Hu, Yelong Shen, Phillip Wallis, Zeyuan Allen-Zhu, Yuanzhi Li, Shean Wang, Lu Wang, Weizhu
Chen, et al. Lora: Low-rank adaptation of large language models.ICLR, 1(2):3, 2022. 11
[39] Yucheng Hu, Yanjiang Guo, Pengchao Wang, Xiaoyu Chen, Yen-Jen Wang, Jianke Zhang, Koushil Sreenath,
Chaochao Lu, and Jianyu Chen. Video prediction policy: A generalist robot policy with predictive visual
representations.arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.14803, 2024. 5
[40] Wenlong Huang, Fei Xia, Ted Xiao, Harris Chan, Jacky Liang, Pete Florence, Andy Zeng, Jonathan
Tompson, Igor Mordatch, Yevgen Chebotar, et al. Inner monologue: Embodied reasoning through
planning with language models. In6th Annual Conference on Robot Learning. 4
[41] Wenlong Huang, Chen Wang, Ruohan Zhang, Yunzhu Li, Jiajun Wu, and Li Fei-Fei. Voxposer: Composable
3d value maps for robotic manipulation with language models.arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.05973, 2023. 4
[42] Wenlong Huang, Yu-Wei Chao, Arsalan Mousavian, Ming-Yu Liu, Dieter Fox, Kaichun Mo, and Li Fei-
Fei. Pointworld: Scaling 3d world models for in-the-wild robotic manipulation.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2601.03782, 2025. 20
[43] Xun Huang, Zhengqi Li, Guande He, Mingyuan Zhou, and Eli Shechtman. Self forcing: Bridging the
train-test gap in autoregressive video diffusion.arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.08009, 2025. 8
[44] Team HunyuanWorld. Hy-world 1.5: A systematic framework for interactive world modeling with
real-time latency and geometric consistency.arXiv preprint, 2025. 19
[45] Arhan Jain, Mingtong Zhang, Kanav Arora, William Chen, Marcel Torne, Muhammad Zubair Irshad,
Sergey Zakharov, Yue Wang, Sergey Levine, Chelsea Finn, et al. Polaris: Scalable real-to-sim evaluations
for generalist robot policies.arXiv preprint arXiv:2512.16881, 2025. 11
[46] Joel Jang, Seonghyeon Ye, Zongyu Lin, Jiannan Xiang, Johan Bjorck, Yu Fang, Fengyuan Hu, Spencer
Huang, Kaushil Kundalia, Yen-Chen Lin, Loïc Magne, Ajay Mandlekar, Avnish Narayan, You Liang Tan,
Guanzhi Wang, Jing Wang, Qi Wang, Yinzhen Xu, Xiaohui Zeng, Kaiyuan Zheng, Ruijie Zheng, Ming-Yu
Liu, Luke Zettlemoyer, Dieter Fox, Jan Kautz, Scott Reed, Yuke Zhu, and Linxi Fan. Dreamgen: Unlocking
generalization in robot learning through video world models. In9th Annual Conference on Robot Learning,
2025. URLhttps://openreview.net/forum?id=3CnxNqmklv. 5
[47] Yang Jin, Zhicheng Sun, Ningyuan Li, Kun Xu, Hao Jiang, Nan Zhuang, Quzhe Huang, Yang Song, Yadong
Mu, and Zhouchen Lin. Pyramidal flow matching for efficient video generative modeling.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2410.05954, 2024. 7
[48] Leslie Pack Kaelbling and Tomás Lozano-Pérez. 1 rationally engineering rational robots. 4
[49] Jared Kaplan, Sam McCandlish, Tom Henighan, Tom B Brown, Benjamin Chess, Rewon Child, Scott Gray,
Alec Radford, Jeffrey Wu, and Dario Amodei. Scaling laws for neural language models.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2001.08361, 2020. 18
[50] Simar Kareer, Karl Pertsch, James Darpinian, Judy Hoffman, Danfei Xu, Sergey Levine, Chelsea Finn,
and Suraj Nair. Emergence of human to robot transfer in vision-language-action models.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2512.22414, 2025. 16
[51] Alexander Khazatsky, Karl Pertsch, Suraj Nair, Ashwin Balakrishna, Sudeep Dasari, Siddharth Karamcheti,
SoroushNasiriany, MohanKumarSrirama, LawrenceYunliangChen, KirstyEllis, etal. Droid: Alarge-scale
in-the-wild robot manipulation dataset.arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.12945, 2024. 10, 11
33

=== PDF page 34 ===
World Action Models are Zero-shot Policies
[52] Moo Jin Kim, Karl Pertsch, Siddharth Karamcheti, Ted Xiao, Ashwin Balakrishna, Suraj Nair, Rafael
Rafailov, Ethan Foster, Grace Lam, Pannag Sanketi, Quan Vuong, Thomas Kollar, Benjamin Burchfiel,
Russ Tedrake, Dorsa Sadigh, Sergey Levine, Percy Liang, and Chelsea Finn. Openvla: An open-source
vision-language-action model.arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.09246, 2024. 4
[53] Moo Jin Kim, Karl Pertsch, Siddharth Karamcheti, Ted Xiao, Ashwin Balakrishna, Suraj Nair, Rafael
Rafailov, Ethan Foster, Grace Lam, Pannag Sanketi, et al. Openvla: An open-source vision-language-action
model.arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.09246, 2024. 2
[54] Moo Jin Kim, Yihuai Gao, Tsung-Yi Lin, Yen-Chen Lin, Yunhao Ge, Grace Lam, Percy Liang, Shuran Song,
Ming-Yu Liu, Chelsea Finn, et al. Cosmos policy: Fine-tuning video models for visuomotor control and
planning.arXiv preprint arXiv:2601.16163, 2026. 2, 5, 7, 19
[55] Po-Chen Ko, Jiayuan Mao, Yilun Du, Shao-Hua Sun, and Joshua B. Tenenbaum. Learning to act from
actionless videos through dense correspondences. InThe Twelfth International Conference on Learning
Representations, 2024. URLhttps://openreview.net/forum?id=Mhb5fpA1T0. 5
[56] Nishanth Kumar, William Shen, Fabio Ramos, Dieter Fox, Tomás Lozano-Pérez, Leslie Pack Kaelbling,
and Caelan Reed Garrett. Open-world task and motion planning via vision-language model generated
constraints.IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, pages 1–8, 2026. doi: 10.1109/LRA.2026.3656799. 4
[57] Yann LeCun. A path towards autonomous machine intelligence.Open Review, 2022. 20
[58] Jason Lee, Jiafei Duan, Haoquan Fang, Yuquan Deng, Shuo Liu, Boyang Li, Bohan Fang, Jieyu Zhang,
Yi Ru Wang, Sangho Lee, et al. Molmoact: Action reasoning models that can reason in space.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2508.07917, 2025. 4
[59] Lin Li, Qihang Zhang, Yiming Luo, Shuai Yang, Ruilin Wang, Fei Han, Mingrui Yu, Zelin Gao, Nan
Xue, Xing Zhu, Yujun Shen, and Yinghao Xu. Causal world modeling for robot control.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2601.21998, 2026. 7
[60] Shuang Li, Yihuai Gao, Dorsa Sadigh, and Shuran Song. Unified video action model.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2503.00200, 2025. 5, 7
[61] Yi Li, Yuquan Deng, Jesse Zhang, Joel Jang, Marius Memmel, Raymond Yu, Caelan Reed Garrett, Fabio
Ramos, Dieter Fox, Anqi Li, et al. Hamster: Hierarchical action models for open-world robot manipulation.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.05485, 2025. 4
[62] Junbang Liang, Ruoshi Liu, Ege Ozguroglu, Sruthi Sudhakar, Achal Dave, Pavel Tokmakov, Shuran Song,
and Carl Vondrick. Dreamitate: Real-world visuomotor policy learning via video generation. In8th
Annual Conference on Robot Learning, 2024. URLhttps://openreview.net/forum?id=InT87E5sr4. 5
[63] Junbang Liang, Pavel Tokmakov, Ruoshi Liu, Sruthi Sudhakar, Paarth Shah, Rares Ambrus, and Carl
Vondrick. Video generators are robot policies.arXiv preprint arXiv:2508.00795, 2025. 2, 5
[64] Yue Liao, Pengfei Zhou, Siyuan Huang, Donglin Yang, Shengcong Chen, Yuxin Jiang, Yue Hu, Jingbin Cai,
Si Liu, Jianlan Luo, et al. Genie envisioner: A unified world foundation platform for robotic manipulation.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2508.05635, 2025. 3, 5, 7
[65] Yaron Lipman, Ricky TQ Chen, Heli Ben-Hamu, Maximilian Nickel, and Matt Le. Flow matching for
generative modeling.arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.02747, 2022. 7
[66] Feng Liu, Shiwei Zhang, Xiaofeng Wang, Yujie Wei, Haonan Qiu, Yuzhong Zhao, Yingya Zhang, Qixiang
Ye, and Fang Wan. Timestep embedding tells: It’s time to cache for video diffusion model.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2411.19108, 2024. 23
34

=== PDF page 35 ===
World Action Models are Zero-shot Policies
[67] Jiacheng Liu, Chang Zou, Yuanhuiyi Lyu, Junjie Chen, and Linfeng Zhang. From reusing to forecasting:
Accelerating diffusion models with taylorseers.arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.06923, 2025. 23
[68] Xingchao Liu, Chengyue Gong, and Qiang Liu. Flow straight and fast: Learning to generate and transfer
data with rectified flow.arXiv preprint arXiv:2209.03003, 2022. 7
[69] Calvin Luo, Zilai Zeng, Yilun Du, and Chen Sun. Solving new tasks by adapting internet video knowledge.
InThe Thirteenth International Conference on Learning Representations, 2025. 5
[70] NVIDIA Corporation. Nvidia model-optimizer, 2024. URL https://github.com/NVIDIA/
Model-Optimizer. 23
[71] Jonas Pai, Liam Achenbach, Victoriano Montesinos, Benedek Forrai, Oier Mees, and Elvis Nava. mimic-
video: Video-action models for generalizable robot control beyond vlas.arXiv preprint arXiv:2512.15692,
2025. 2, 3, 5, 7
[72] Physical Intelligence.𝜋0.5: a vision-language-action model with open-world generalization.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2504.16054, 2025. 4, 5, 10
[73] Lucy Xiaoyang Shi, Brian Ichter, Michael Equi, Liyiming Ke, Karl Pertsch, Quan Vuong, James Tanner,
Anna Walling, Haohuan Wang, Niccolo Fusai, et al. Hi robot: Open-ended instruction following with
hierarchical vision-language-action models.arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.19417, 2025. 19
[74] Ishika Singh, Valts Blukis, Arsalan Mousavian, Ankit Goyal, Danfei Xu, Jonathan Tremblay, Dieter Fox,
Jesse Thomason, and Animesh Garg. Progprompt: Generating situated robot task plans using large
language models. In2023 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), 2023. 4
[75] Generalist AI Team. Gen-0: Embodied foundation models that scale with physical interaction.Generalist
AI Blog, 2025. https://generalistai.com/blog/preview-uqlxvb-bb.html. 16
[76] Team Wan. Wan: Open and advanced large-scale video generative models. 2025. 2, 7, 11
[77] Hansi Teng, Hongyu Jia, Lei Sun, Lingzhi Li, Maolin Li, Mingqiu Tang, Shuai Han, Tianning Zhang,
WQ Zhang, Weifeng Luo, et al. Magi-1: Autoregressive video generation at scale.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2505.13211, 2025. 7, 8
[78] Homer Walke, Kevin Black, Abraham Lee, Moo Jin Kim, Max Du, Chongyi Zheng, Tony Zhao, Philippe
Hansen-Estruch, Quan Vuong, Andre He, Vivek Myers, Kuan Fang, Chelsea Finn, and Sergey Levine.
Bridgedata v2: A dataset for robot learning at scale. InConference on Robot Learning (CoRL), 2023. 10
[79] John Won, Kyungmin Lee, Huiwon Jang, Dongyoung Kim, and Jinwoo Shin. Dual-stream diffusion for
world-model augmented vision-language-action model.arXiv preprint arXiv:2510.27607, 2025. 5
[80] Hongtao Wu, Ya Jing, Chilam Cheang, Guangzeng Chen, Jiafeng Xu, Xinghang Li, Minghuan Liu, Hang
Li, and Tao Kong. Unleashing large-scale video generative pre-training for visual robot manipulation. In
The Twelfth International Conference on Learning Representations, 2024. URLhttps://openreview.net/
forum?id=NxoFmGgWC9. 5
[81] An Yang, Anfeng Li, Baosong Yang, Beichen Zhang, Binyuan Hui, Bo Zheng, Bowen Yu, Chang Gao,
Chengen Huang, Chenxu Lv, et al. Qwen3 technical report.arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.09388, 2025. 18
[82] Jianwei Yang, Reuben Tan, Qianhui Wu, Ruijie Zheng, Baolin Peng, Yongyuan Liang, Yu Gu, Mu Cai,
Seonghyeon Ye, Joel Jang, Yuquan Deng, Lars Liden, and Jianfeng Gao. Magma: A foundation model for
multimodal AI agents, 2025. 4
35

=== PDF page 36 ===
World Action Models are Zero-shot Policies
[83] Sherry Yang, Yilun Du, Seyed Kamyar Seyed Ghasemipour, Jonathan Tompson, Leslie Pack Kaelbling, Dale
Schuurmans, and Pieter Abbeel. Learning interactive real-world simulators. InThe Twelfth International
Conference on Learning Representations, 2024. URLhttps://openreview.net/forum?id=sFyTZEqmUY.
5
[84] Seonghyeon Ye, Joel Jang, Byeongguk Jeon, Se June Joo, Jianwei Yang, Baolin Peng, Ajay Mandlekar,
Reuben Tan, Yu-Wei Chao, Bill Yuchen Lin, Lars Liden, Kimin Lee, Jianfeng Gao, Luke Zettlemoyer, Dieter
Fox, and Minjoon Seo. Latent action pretraining from videos. InThe Thirteenth International Conference
on Learning Representations, 2025. URLhttps://openreview.net/forum?id=VYOe2eBQeh. 4
[85] Tianwei Yin, Qiang Zhang, Richard Zhang, William T Freeman, Fredo Durand, Eli Shechtman, and Xun
Huang. From slow bidirectional to fast autoregressive video diffusion models. InProceedings of the
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition Conference, pages 22963–22974, 2025. 8
[86] Qingqing Zhao, Yao Lu, Moo Jin Kim, Zipeng Fu, Zhuoyang Zhang, Yecheng Wu, Zhaoshuo Li, Qianli
Ma, Song Han, Chelsea Finn, et al. Cot-vla: Visual chain-of-thought reasoning for vision-language-action
models.arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.22020, 2025. 5
[87] Wenliang Zhao, Lujia Bai, Yongming Rao, Jie Zhou, and Jiwen Lu. UniPC: A unified predictor-corrector
framework for fast sampling of diffusion models. InThirty-seventh Conference on Neural Information
Processing Systems, 2023. URLhttps://openreview.net/forum?id=hrkmlPhp1u. 23
[88] Ruijie Zheng, Yongyuan Liang, Shuaiyi Huang, Jianfeng Gao, Hal Daumé III, Andrey Kolobov, Furong
Huang, and Jianwei Yang. TraceVLA: Visual trace prompting enhances spatial-temporal awareness for
generalist robotic policies. InThe Thirteenth International Conference on Learning Representations, 2025. 4
[89] Ruijie Zheng, Jing Wang, Scott Reed, Johan Bjorck, Yu Fang, Fengyuan Hu, Joel Jang, Kaushil Kundalia,
Zongyu Lin, Loic Magne, et al. Flare: Robot learning with implicit world modeling.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2505.15659, 2025. 5
[90] Jiaming Zhou, Ke Ye, Jiayi Liu, Teli Ma, Zifan Wang, Ronghe Qiu, Kun-Yu Lin, Zhilin Zhao, and Junwei
Liang. Exploring the limits of vision-language-action manipulations in cross-task generalization.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2505.15660, 2025. 2
[91] Siyuan Zhou, Yilun Du, Jiaben Chen, Yandong Li, Dit-Yan Yeung, and Chuang Gan. Robodreamer:
Learning compositional world models for robot imagination.arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.12377, 2024. 5
[92] Chuning Zhu, Raymond Yu, Siyuan Feng, Benjamin Burchfiel, Paarth Shah, and Abhishek Gupta. Unified
world models: Coupling video and action diffusion for pretraining on large robotic datasets.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2504.02792, 2025. 5, 7
36